Knowledge of radiopathological correlations in breast diseases helps the radiologists to analyze and characterize breast lesions .
Neurosensorial retinal detachment decreased in 80 % of cases .
This protein is produced in large amounts by fibroblasts cultivated in vitro .
CONCLUSIONS : The data suggest that PI3K / Akt - NF - kappaB axis may promote PC bone metastasis in part by regulating transcription and activation of the BMP - 2 - Smad signaling cascade in osteotropic PC cells .
We tested whether as well as inhibiting leukocyte elastase ( LE ) activity , Hyp might be effective in containing both polymorphonuclear neutrophil ( PMN ) leukocyte recruitment and unfavorable eventual tissue responses .
In the pathologic analysis of the abdominal wounds , there was no statistically significant difference between any of the groups , including the control group , regarding inflammation .
PURPOSE : To describe visual acuity and angiographic outcomes of juxtafoveal choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) treated with photodynamic therapy and verteporfin ( PDT ) .
The antivascular permeability mechanisms deployed by Ang1 are still undefined .
Our results support the use of FDG PET in clinical trials with RAF265 to assess early tumor response .
CONCLUSION : Our results strongly support a role for PI3K / Akt / mTOR pathway in PET , which ties in with the fact that mTOR inhibitors have reached phase III trials in neuroendocrine tumors .
Based on our results , COUP - TFII may represent a biomarker for good prognosis in colorectal cancer .
Matrix metalloproteinase activity and immunohistochemical profile of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 during human dermal wound healing .
Nine patients were started on bevacizumab at a dose of 5 mg / m2 every 2 weeks .
This pattern of expression is consistent with a mechanistic involvement of 5T4 molecules in the spread of cancer cells .
Identification of a small region of the v - fos gene product that is sufficient for transforming potential and growth - stimulating activity .
OBJECTIVE : The aim of this study was the follow - up of VEGF expression during the course of CML .
The study population comprised 23 patients with histopathologically proven primary brain tumours ; 14 had high - grade gliomas , and nine low - grade brain neoplasms .
Robo1 and Robo4 interact and share molecules such as Slit2 , Mena and Vilse , a Cdc42 - GAP .
Under physiological conditions , angiogenesis is regulated by local balance between endogenous stimulators and inhibitors of this process .
Topotecan - and gimatecan induced moderate up - regulation of TRAIL - R1 and - R2 which resulted in a different cell response to the combination in androgen - independent cells ( DU - 145 and PC - 3 ) .
Concomitant inhibition of autophagy may be an attractive strategy for unlocking the antitumor potential of sorafenib in HCC .
OBJECTIVE : p53 plays a role in tumor angiogenesis , and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) plays a key role in tumor angiogenesis .
Thus , vimentin expression may be helpful in identifying a substantial subset of ER - independent breast carcinomas with poor prognostic indicators .
DNA microarray analysis and small animal PET studies may be used as complementary technologies in drug development .
Finally , in vivo , in a xenograft model of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma using UM - SCC - 11A cells , 2ME2 exhibited antitumor and antiangiogenic activity , as measured by CD31 immunostaining .
Three patients developed deep vein thromboses and two heavily pretreated patients developed treatment - related acute myelogenous leukemia or myelodysplasia after 3 . 7 and 12 months of therapy .
Finally , sections of the control and experimental flaps were analyzed histologically .
The authors show that resection of the primary osteosarcoma tumor enhances progression of pulmonary metastasis in animal osteosarcoma models .
Modulation of apoptosis in human myeloid leukemic cells by GM - CSF .
VEGF might be an important angiogenic factor , and could promote tumor angiogenesis in LSCC .
The loss of one allele of the p53 gene ( located on chromosome 17p13 ) occurred in at least 6 ( 60 % ) of the 10 patients who were heterozygous at the p53 locus .
Hyperfibrinogenemia ( > 310 mg / dl ) was independently associated with lymph node ( Odds Ratio ; 2 . 342 , P = 0 . 0032 ) and liver ( Odds Ratio ; 2 . 933 , P = 0 . 0147 ) metastasis , not with peritoneal metastasis in this series .
The incidence of high - grade lesions ( high - grade dysplasia / carcinoma in situ and invasive adenocarcinoma ) in the folate - supplemented group was 46 % lower than that in the control group ( 35 . 3 % versus 65 . 1 % , P = 0 . 009 ) .
RESULTS : The mean Rentrop collateral score was higher in Group 1 than in Group 2 ( 2 . 39 + / - 1 . 07 vs . 1 . 76 + / - 0 . 76 , respectively , p less than 0 . 001 ) .
In contrast , pellets from the CLA - fed animals contained fewer infiltrating cells , which formed limited branching cellular networks , the majority of which had collapsed lumen and no RBCs .
Three weeks after injection , blood perfusion and capillary density were significantly higher in the FM - MSC and BM - MSC groups than in the phosphate - buffered saline group , and allogeneic FM - MSC and BM - MSC were still observed .
Together , our findings demonstrate a novel role of TSP - 1 to inhibit tumor - stroma reaction that could be attributed to the blockage of activated fibroblasts from invading cancer cells .
Few studies have investigated the association between p53 and VEGF expressions and prognosis in esophageal carcinoma .
Eighteen patients with SRNV refusing radiotherapy served as a control group and were matched with 18 irradiated patients .
In order to appropriately move NF - kappaB inhibitors in the clinic , thorough approaches must be initiated to determine the molecular mechanisms that dictate the complexity of oncologic and therapeutic outcomes that are controlled by NF - kappaB .
Target FVs are tracked by a joy - stick controlled laser aiming beam until an intravenously - injected high - concentration ICG dye bolus is observed to enter the target vessel , at which time the laser is fired .
Pharmacological inhibition of the proteasome prevents the degradation of Hck correlating with an increase in the phosphotyrosine levels within the cells .
Metastasis - associated 5T4 antigen disrupts cell - cell contacts and induces cellular motility in epithelial cells .
The mechanism of caffeine seems to involve the inhibition of the extracellular signal - regulated kinase 1 / 2 ( ERK1 / 2 ) , p38 , and Akt , leading to a marked decrease in adenosine - induced HIF - 1alpha accumulation , VEGF transcriptional activation , and VEGF and IL - 8 protein accumulation .
The purpose of this study was to try to understand why DU145 cells are resistant to CH - 11 and determine the signaling pathway utilized by AdGFPFasL ( TET ) to induce apoptosis in these Fas - resistant cells .
MDM2 as a predictor of prostate carcinoma outcome : an analysis of Radiation Therapy Oncology Group Protocol 8610 .
CONCLUSIONS : The combination of bevacizumab and irinotecan is safe and has excellent activity even in this relapsed , heavily pretreated population of patients with high - grade malignant glioma , most of whom would not be candidates for clinical trials .
This finding may help to elucidate the relationship of WT1 and N - myc in tumorigenesis and renal development .
The tumor vascular network is the result of pro - angiogenic and inhibitory factors as well as of the interaction between endothelial cells and extracellular matrix .
Comparison of tissue integration between polyester and polypropylene prostheses in the preperitoneal space .
Nevertheless , for both viruses the leukemic blasts retained full factor dependence for growth .
Breast tissue taken at varying postoperative times ( n = 92 ) or during surgery ( controls , n = 17 ) , was used to investigate the temporal and spatial activity of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 during human wound healing .
An emerging area of research suggests that CSC may also support tumor progression by promoting tumor angiogenesis .
In addition , a reduction in tumor volume of Grm1 - mouse - melanocytic - allografts was detected in the presence of small interfering AKT2 RNA ( siAKT2 ) .
Hence , the down - regulation of p21WAF1 , together with the alterations in Bax and cdk2 as observed in our studies , may define a novel mechanism by which ciprofloxacin inhibits tumor cell growth and induces apoptotic cell death .
Normal functionality of exogenous Tsg101 was tested by rescuing the survival of Tsg101 - deficient mammary epithelial cells in conditional knockout mice .
By contrast to the cytoplasmic BAG - 1 isoforms , BAG - 1L may act to suppress tumorigenesis .
It was recently reported for its anticancer effect on several types of cancer cells in vitro however , the molecular mechanisms of this anticancer effect are not fully understood .
The interaction between the vascular endothelium and hemodynamic forces ( and more specifically , fluid shear stress ) , induced by the flow of blood , plays a major role in vascular remodeling and in new blood vessels formation via a process termed arteriogenesis .
The expression of ARD1 was augmented by treatment with synthetic androgen ( R1881 ) unless AR is deficient or is inhibited by AR - specific siRNA or androgen inhibitor bicalutamide ( Casodex ) .
The metabolism of [ 1 , 2 - ( 13 ) C ( 2 ) ] - glucose by HUVEC allows us to trace many of the main glucose metabolic pathways , including glycogen synthesis , the pentose cycle and the glycolytic pathways .
CONCLUSIONS : The results have shown that bisphosphonates as adjuvant treatment might be useful for the prevention of bone metastases ; however , there is need for blinded randomized data before such an approach would be confirmed .
Here , we show that deleting the Tip30 gene leads to ductal hyperplasia in mouse mammary glands early in life and extensive mammary hyperplasia with age .
Importantly , the addition of a neutralizing VEGF antibody abolished M - CSF - induced blood vessel formation .
Hck - mediated cellular transformation of murine fibroblasts is reverted by ectopic expression of a membrane - anchored allele of Cbl as assessed by the cellular morphology , suppression of anchorage independent growth , and an overall reduction in the total tyrosine phosphorylation levels within the cells .
This study validates a role for Met activation in melanoma tumor progression in the context of Cdkn2a deficiency .
It is normally produced in bone , teeth , kidney and epithelial lining tissues and is found in plasma and breast milk .
Unirradiated animals showed equal neovascularization of both implants .
The concept of the neurovascular unit emphasizes that common signals and substrates underlie the physiology and pathophysiology of neuronal and endothelial compartments in brain .
Using DsRed - tagged Crk and a fluorescent time - lapse microscope , we showed that Crk was recruited to the nascent focal complex after ephrin - B1 stimulation .
Lymphoma prevalence was minimal in the T lineage but significant , although low ( 3 - 15 % ) , in the B lineage .
In co - transfection experiments , exogenous expression of AP - 2gamma robustly activated ErbB - 3 promoter activity .
A significant correlation between LDH5 and TKTL1 within each histologic tumortype could not be revealed .
These observations support that the activation of multiple signals could enhance apoptotic response and suggest the therapeutic interest of the TRAIL / camptothecin combination .
METHODS : Using flow cytometry we evaluated 18 human lung cancer cell lines for the expression of different surface markers on lung cancers suggested to be possible prognostic parameters , including epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) , intercellular adhesion molecule 1 ( ICAM - 1 ) , Fas and CD40 .
Expressions of KISS1 mRNA and protein were significantly higher in low TNM stages of NSCLC ( I - II ) compared to more advanced stages ( III - IV ) ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
However , recent identification of a high - Km glucose phosphorylating activity in a range of cancer cells prompted us to characterize glucose phosphorylating enzymes of cancer cells at the molecular level .
Accordingly , the therapeutic potential of curcumin for breast cancer deserves further study .
Absent staining of beta - catenin was associated with lymph node metastasis .
Rats were immunized with irradiated hepatoma cells transduced by herpes viral amplicon vectors containing the genes for GM - CSF , IL - 2 or LacZ .
Compared with values measured at the edge of the ear and in the contralateral ear , leukocyte adhesion was found to be diminished significantly in vessels inside the ear tumor in both mouse models .
Mild mutations in BRCA2 ( FANCD1 ) cause Fanconi anemia ( FA ) when homozygous , while severe mutations cause common cancers including breast , ovarian , and prostate cancers when heterozygous .
In order to better understand the coordinated regulation of cell - cell and cell - matrix interactions during malignant transformation , we have studied the expression of syndecan - 1 in malignant mammary tumor cells genetically manipulated for E - cadherin expression .
While TSP - 2 deficiency did not affect tumor differentiation or proliferation , tumor cell apoptosis was significantly reduced .
Immunostaining data are interpreted with computer image analysis and reported as stain index .
Semaphorins and their cognate receptors , Plexins and neuropilins , are involved in neuronal pathfinding , immune function , and tumor progression through effects on blood vessel growth and cell migration .
Due to the low prevalence of hemangiopericytomas ( HPCs ) , data on the biophysiological characteristics of this tumor are rare .
Glioma tumor stem - like cells promote tumor angiogenesis and vasculogenesis via vascular endothelial growth factor and stromal - derived factor 1 .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : In this study all of the major members of the matrix metalloproteinase ( MMP - 1 , MMP - 2 , MMP - 3 , MMP - 7 , MMP - 9 , MMP - 13 , MT1 - MMP and MT2 - MMP ) / tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase ( TIMP - 1 , TIMP - 2 , and TIMP - 3 ) system have been investigated by immunohistochemistry in a series ( n = 90 ) of stage III ( Dukes ' C ) colorectal cancers .
Immunohistochemistry examinations in the human surgical specimens have shown that a downregulation of TSP - 1 during the progression of cervical carcinogenesis was accompanied by an emergence in the upregulation of stroma markers , alpha - smooth muscle actin ( alpha - SMA ) and desmin .
RESULTS : Using ICG - DEP , CNV feeder vessels were closed with single pulse laser energy , delivering as little as 0 . 6 to 1 . 8 J of energy to the fundus , producing no visible change in the fundus .
While accumlating evidence for the function of MTSS1 support the concept that it is unlikely to be a metastasis suppressor , but actually acts as a scaffold protein that interacts with multiple partners to regulate actin dynamics .
BACKGROUND : The murine nm23 gene suppresses the metastatic behavior of malignant rodent tumor lines , and reduced nm23 expression correlates with increased likelihood of lymph node metastases in human breast cancers .
Mitochondrial complex II , or succinate dehydrogenase , is a key enzymatic complex involved in both the tricarboxylic acid ( TCA ) cycle and oxidative phosphorylation as part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain .
PLAG1 overexpression in salivary glands has previously been shown to result in salivary gland tumors in 100 % of mice within 5 weeks after birth .
To better understand the intracellular signaling pathways , we examined the effect of HKa on the phosphorylation of Akt and its downstream effector , GSK - 3alpha HKa and D5 inhibit phosphorylation of Akt and GSK - 3alpha after stimulation withVEGF and S1P .
We verified the predicted ELK - 1 - - > tPA transcriptional regulatory relationship using a luciferase reporter assay .
Treatment with anti - Fas , however , significantly decreased Fas - c - erbB2 and Fas - c - met association .
However , MKN - 28 , MKN - 45 , MKN - 74 , and SNU16 cells did not express membrane CXCR4 .
Anti - endosialin antibodies may have value in identifying vasculature in malignant tissues .
The samples were transferred to Kyushu University Hospital ( Beppu , Japan ) where they were analyzed by quantitative real - time reverse transcription - PCR for three epithelial cell markers , carcinoembryonic antigen , cytokeratin - 19 , and cytokeratin - 7 , as well as VEGFR - 1 .
Different antiangiogenic therapeutics have been developed to improve tumor control through vascular - targeting agents ( VTA ) .
In this cell line , c - myb is activated by insertional mutagenesis and cannot be effectively down regulated by cytokine .
The roles of miscrovascularity density ( MVD ) and VEGF expression in the progression of oral squamous cell carcinoma ( OSCC ) have been controversial .
Furthermore , ARD1 interacted physically with and acetylated the AR protein in vivo and in vitro .
In this study , we have explored the activity of GSE on VEGF receptor and angiogenesis .
It is concluded that its action is targeted to tumor neovasculature and the mechanism is inhibition of tumor angiogenesis .
In the presence of high levels of VEGF , Ang - 2 also promotes rapid increase in capillary diameter , remodeling of the basal lamina , proliferation and migration of endothelial cells , and stimulates sprouting of new blood vessels .
We hypothesized that 1 ) MCT expression in malignant tumors may differ from normal tissue in quantity , isoform , or both ; and 2 ) silencing MCT expression would induce intracellular acidification , resulting in decreased proliferation and / or increased cell death .
The systemic increase in bFGF and MMP - 1 might reflect an increased local stimulation of angiogenesis during distraction osteogenesis .
Upon initiation of angiogenesis with basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) on the chick chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) , endothelial cell mitogen - activated protein ( MAP ) kinase ( ERK ) activity was detected as early as 5 min yet was sustained for at least 20 h .
Inhibitor of differentiation - 1 ( Id - 1 ) is a member of helix - loop - helix ( HLH ) family of proteins that regulate gene transcription through their inhibitory binding to basic - HLH transcription factors .
We demonstrated that Evi - 1 represses TGF - beta signaling and antagonizes its growth - inhibitory effects .
These results suggest that the role of mast cells in angiogenesis may be to enhance migration of the endothelial cells of growing capillaries .
Molecular analyses of tumors in beclin 1 heterozygous mice show that the remaining wild - type allele is neither mutated nor silenced .
We also show that VEGFR1 + cells express VLA - 4 ( also known as integrin alpha4beta1 ) , and that tumour - specific growth factors upregulate fibronectin - - a VLA - 4 ligand - - in resident fibroblasts , providing a permissive niche for incoming tumour cells .
The down - regulation of p21WAF1 closely correlated with poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase cleavage and CPP32 activation .
We show here that constitutively active STAT3 acts as a master regulator of cell metabolism , inducing aerobic glycolysis and down - regulating mitochondrial activity both in primary fibroblasts and in STAT3 - dependent tumour cell lines .
In combination with TNF or melphalan , L - NAME increased response rates significantly compared to perfusions without L - NAME ( 0 - 64 % and 0 - 63 % respectively ) .
VEGF mRNA expression was also observed in Ve - and OMP - stimulated HGF .
Radiologic defect area measurement results at 0 , 4 , and 16 weeks were compared between the groups .
Pancreatic somatostatin - secreting gangliocytic paraganglioma with lymph node metastases .
This has led to the therapeutic concept of prophylactic thyroidectomy in affected family members with the goal of removing the thyroid before the manifestation of carcinoma .
However , the molecular mechanism of these effects is not understood .
LMP1 of Epstein - Barr virus induces proliferation of primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts and cooperatively transforms the cells with a p16 - insensitive CDK4 oncogene .
It is well established that tobacco smoke is a tumor initiator , but we asked whether it also acts as a tumor promoter once malignant initiation , such as caused by K - ras activation , has taken place .
The portion of the LTR responsible for trans activation was mapped by deletions to lie within the U3 region .
Rise in insulin concentrations over baseline in the first 5 minutes of the glucose tolerance test were also significantly greater in dogs with lymphoma ( P = 0 . 021 ) .
In addition to well established functions to block cell proliferation , recent studies have revealed a role for p53 in the regulation of pathways involved in glucose metabolism .
Oxidation in rheumatoid arthritis .
It enhances solid tumor growth and provides an ability to establish metastasis at peripheral sites by tumor cell migration .
4 - Dodecylmorpholine N - oxide ( DMNO ) , one of the most active compounds , decreased the level of ATP immediately after addition to the suspension of Ehrlich cells in an ice bath .
However , biochemical screening cannot reliably discriminate the transition from C - cell hyperplasia to invasive microcarcinoma .
Platelet activation occurs in the tumor microenvironment and may influence local invasion and metastasis .
One mechanism by which alpha - MSH exerts its effects is modulation of AP - 1 and NF - kappa B .
As such , sustained nuclear FOXO3a expression in breast cancer may culminate in cancer progression and the development of an aggressive phenotype similar to that observed in cytotoxic chemotherapy resistant breast cancer cell models .
While the understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of IBD has recently improved , the mechanisms that link these chronic inflammatory states to colorectal cancer development are in large part unknown .
Based on these optimized parameters , a prototype diagnostic / treatment system was designed that captures high - speed indocyanine green ( ICG ) angiogram images and facilitates analysis of the images by enhancing visualization of dye movement through CNV feeder vessels ( FVs ) .
Nrf2 heterodimerizes with small Maf protein to strongly activate transcription through the Maf recognition element ( MARE ) and Keap1 is an inhibitory regulator of Nrf2 .
Defective expression of HRK is associated with promoter methylation in primary central nervous system lymphomas .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : We assessed response , toxicity , and biomarkers of angiogenesis to low - dose cyclophosphamide ( 50 mg p . o . o . d . ) and high - dose celecoxib ( 400 mg p . o . b . i . d . ) in adult patients with relapsed or refractory aggressive non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma in a multicenter phase II prospective study .
TSP interacts with a number of proteases and receptors and in this way inhibits stimulation of angiogenesis .
Because islet inflammation may originate from endothelial cells , we assessed the expression of selected genes involved in endothelial cell activation in islets from a spontaneous model of type 2 diabetes , the Goto - Kakizaki ( GK ) rat .
Thus , these results together suggest that sunitinib initially exerts its apoptotic effect through the inhibition of VEGFR - 2 , which , when followed by reduction of its downstream effectors , including Akt / mTOR / S6K1 , may lead to inhibition of the antiapoptotic molecule Bcl - 2 and activation of the proapoptotic molecule BAD in PC12 cells .
We have reported important benefits and survival with an immunotherapy schedule in patients with endocrine - dependent breast cancer and distant metastases .
Dogs with lymphoma had similar glucose tolerance curves when compared with controls .
ERK1 / 2 and JNK inactivation was associated with Ets - like transcription factor - 1 ( ELK - 1 ) dephosphorylation .
In the latter , VEGF colocalized with the advanced glycation end product pentosidine deposits .
Hepatectomy was performed , and the patient is alive and free of disease 1 year postsurgery .
As determined by ELISA and immunoblot assays , ras p21 in the serum increased with increased tumor growth .
Taken together , our findings suggest that ICAM - 3 stimulates cancer cell migration / invasion via ICAM - 3 / Akt / CREB / MMP pathway regardless of p53 and PTEN status , and this reflects the possibility that ICAM - 3 could be considered as a candidate for anti - cancer drug development and as a cancer diagnostic marker .
These results show that Fas - signaling exerted a suppressive effect on p53 levels and on downstream effectors of receptor tyrosine kinase signal transduction , thereby ensuring cell death .
High levels of these angiogenic factors in heart disease also have not translated into clinically significant new vessel formation , as in accelerated cancer growth or proliferative retinopathy .
Abnormal beta - catenin expression was associated significantly with positive 14 - 3 - 3zeta expression .
These results suggest that in leukemic cells N - glycosylation of Glut - 1 plays an important role in maintaining its structure and functional integration .
Effects of spironolactone on corneal allograft survival in the rat .
In this review , we focus on the use of tumor necrosis factor alpha ( TNF ) in local and systemic therapy in conjunction with chemotherapy .
Targets identified in these novel and diverse FH - deficient models represent excellent potential candidates for further mechanistic investigation and therapeutic metabolic manipulation in tumors .
Given its recently - described role as an inflammatory mediator , VEGF could also contribute to the inflammatory responses observed in cerebral ischemia .
In neuronal cells , following Brn - 3a gene transfection and superexpression , an increase of 30 fold of the Bcl - 2 protein occurs , leading to apoptosis protection .
None of the polymorphisms were associated with risk of advanced stage or histologic subtype of cervical cancer .
It is concluded that primary skin fibroblasts are able to survive for at least 8 weeks following intracerebral implantation and continue to synthesize collagen and fibronectin in vivo .
Disease - free ( DFS ) and overall ( OAS ) survival curves were estimated by the Kaplan - Meier method .
In addition , AglRhz induced activation of caspase - 3 and poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase ( PARP ) , and DNA fragmentation in HT - 29 cells , leads to induction of apoptosis as well as suppression of tumorigenicity of HT - 29 cells .
Under normal conditions insulin regulates expression of hexokinase Type II isoenzyme , which is predominantly expressed in muscle .
We also examined cell proliferation , migration , and anti - apoptotic activity in response to stromal cell - derived factor ( SDF ) - 1alpha and evaluated SDF - 1alpha / CXCR4 signaling pathways .
Here we demonstrate that bone marrow - derived haematopoietic progenitor cells that express vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 1 ( VEGFR1 ; also known as Flt1 ) home to tumour - specific pre - metastatic sites and form cellular clusters before the arrival of tumour cells .
ADAM - 9 is expressed in human melanoma at the tumor - stroma border where direct or indirect interactions between tumor cells and fibroblasts occur .
Neither the synthesis nor some basic activities of MyoD appeared to be affected by wt SVLT .
Despite convincing evidence of its efficacy , little is known about the mechanism of action of TnI as an anti - proliferative and anti - angiogenic agent .
Retrospective case series of juxtafoveal choroidal neovascularization treated with photodynamic therapy with verteporfin .
The apoptotic molecule bax is induced in p53 - mediated apoptosis , but bax is not induced in E2F - 1 - mediated apoptosis in glioma cells .
We have reported recently that the long terminal repeat ( LTR ) of Moloney murine leukemia virus encodes a trans activator which induces transcription and expression of class I major histocompatibility complex genes and certain cytokine genes .
Endothelial cell migration is an essential step in vasculogenesis and angiogenesis , in which receptor tyrosine kinases play a pivotal role .
We herein report the effects of novel developed material , collagen - poly glycolic acid fiber hybrid matrix , being used together with basic fibroblast growth factor to promote wound healing of full - thickness skin defects on the back of type 2 diabetic Lepr ( db ) mice .
In accord with our hypothesis , in a variety of different FH - deficient tissues , including a novel murine model of Fh1 - deficient smooth muscle , we show a striking and progressive upregulation of a tumorigenic metabolic profile , as manifested by increased PKM2 and LDHA protein .
Together , these studies define a novel p53 - survivin signaling pathway activated by DNA damage that results in down - regulation of survivin , cell cycle arrest , and apoptosis .
Therefore , we have identified a novel role for PSMA as a true molecular interface , integrating both extracellular and intracellular signals during angiogenesis .
Attenuation of NF - kappaB activation by TSC phenolic fraction was associated with significant decrease of intracellular PKC substrate phosphorylation in BPDE treated cells .
The polyester prostheses utilized were polyester flat ( PF ) and polyester soft three - dimensional ( PS ) ; the PP mesh utilized was Marlex .
The lack of expression correlates with a lack of detectable HLA - DR mRNA .
We also assessed the effect of C / EBPbeta on COX - 2 expression .
Cancer progression and p53 .
Daily i . p . injections of HAH - cortisol into mice bearing s . c . sponge implants retarded vascularization of the sponge , and injections directly into the sponge abolished vascularization for as long as the injections were continued .
Dioleoyl phosphatidylethanolamine - based lipoplexes were found to give low expression , apparently because of an immediate loss of integrity in serum , without lipid - DNA dissociation .
This indicates that the strategy may be a useful therapeutic avenue for treatment of patients with malignant glioma .
Our data suggest for the first time that S727 phosphorylation is sufficient to activate Stat3 , thereby driving prostate tumorigenesis independent of Y705 phosphorylation .
John ' s wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) , has emerged as key player not only in the antidepressant activity of the plant but also as an inhibitor of bacteria lymphocyte and tumor cell proliferation , and matrix proteinases .
RESULTS : Osteopontin small interference RNA ( siRNA ) inhibited osteopontin expression and cell invasion , promoted apoptosis in U251 cells .
After 15 days , the clots were examined by histology and electron microscopy .
The UV - irradiated cells demonstrated enhanced tumorigenicity and metastatic potential in nude mice .
Transporters , enzymes , and enalapril removal in a rat ( CC531 - induced ) liver metastatic model .
These results indicate that induction of SAPKs by hypoxia regulates HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression in head and neck carcinoma cell lines .
Microtubule - binding drugs ( MBD ) are widely used in cancer chemotherapy and also have clinically relevant antiangiogenic and vascular - disrupting properties .
These may be associated with plant based anti - inflammatory effects , The phytochemistry and pharmacological actions of all Punica granatum components suggest a wide range of clinical applications for the treatment and prevention of cancer , as well as other diseases where chronic inflammation is believed to play an essential etiologic role .
Strong positive expression of mEndostatin was seen in the tumor tissue after injection of Ad - mEndostatin , immunhistochemically ostained by mouse endostatin monoclonal antibody , while the control groups showed only very low expression or absence .
METHODS : Six patients with lymphoma twice underwent [ 18F ] FDG - PET imaging : once after fasting overnight and once during euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp .
In 17 rabbits , a 2 - cm strip of latissimus dorsi was woven into the parascapular fat pad on one side , with the contralateral fat pad serving as a control .
The fact that viral or other adjunctive vectors were not required further suggests that secreted gene products may have potential therapeutic utility even when the number of successfully transfected cells remains low .
Presumably , glycolysis is one of the regulatory mechanisms of intracellular ratios of monovalent cations .
Groups 1 and 2 consisted of 48 patients without DR and 42 patients with PDR , respectively .
Coexpression of PIM - 1KD and PIM - 2KD abrogated growth factor - independent growth of Ba / F3 transformed by several PTKs , including BCR / ABL .
Jun N terminal kinase ( JNK1 ) and p38 kinase are activated by a variety of stress stimuli .
Endothelial cell migration was increased by Rab5a depletion but decreased by Rab7a depletion .
The delayed application of corticosteroids after treatment with antimycotic drugs in cases of fungal keratitis is therefore not contraindicated and may be beneficial in patients .
Research and discovery of the first human cancer virus , HTLV - 1 .
The control WB cells in continuous culture slowly developed TGF - beta resistance .
KISS1 hypermethylation was frequent in bladder cancer cells analyzed by methylation - specific PCR and bisulfite sequencing and was associated with low gene expression , being restored in vitro by demethylating azacytidine .
IFN - alpha / beta signalling itself does not activate p53 ; rather , it contributes to boosting p53 responses to stress signals .
Thus , our data show that allergic respiratory inflammation may represent a risk factor for the development of lung metastases and suggest that amelioration of the pulmonary inflammation associated with asthma will have a direct and immediate benefit to the 7 % to 8 % of breast cancer patients with this lung disease .
Marked angiogenesis is induced by implantation of a chamber containing RENCA cells into mice .
Anti - IL - 6 therapy is a new strategy in the inflammatory autoimmune diseases and cancer .
Hypoxia also increased VEGF production by SCC lines , which was inhibited by treatment with SB203580 .
Phenolic fraction of tobacco smoke condensate potentiates benzo [ a ] pyerene diol epoxide - induced cell transformation : role of protein kinase C .
In these conditions , the rates of oxygen uptake , the CO2 evolution and the changes in the redox states of cytochromes indicate that glucose is preferred by Ehrlich ascites tumour cells as energy substrate .
Significant differences were found between the control and experimental fat pads with regard to weight and length .
Here we report a zebrafish brca2 insertional mutant that shares phenotypes with human patients and identifies a novel brca2 function in oogenesis .
He noted that wounds , like tumors , secrete VPF , causing blood vessels to leak plasma fibrinogen , which stimulates blood vessel growth and provides a matrix on which they can spread .
Fluroquinolone antibiotics such as ciprofloxacin , which can be administered p . o . , may have a profound effect in bladder cancer management .
Methotrexate ( MTX ) , a folic acid antagonist widely used for the treatment of a variety of tumors and inflammatory diseases , affects normal tissues that have a high rate of proliferation , including the hematopoietic cells of the bone marrow and the gastrointestinal mucosal cells .
An immediate decrease in corneal clouding was observed in groups treated with additional low - or high - dose prednisolone from day 9 after inoculation .
The volume density of blood vessels between the two investigated areas was significantly lower in the 1 mm / day groups , suggesting a delay in angiogenesis in this group of patients .
This induction of Ets - 1 could be reproduced in in vivo denudation of rat aortic endothelium by a balloon catheter .
Ectopic expression of TLX in the U87MG glioma cell line and Ink4a / Arf - deficient mouse astrocytes ( Ink4a / Arf ( - / - ) astrocytes ) induced cell proliferation with a concomitant increase in cyclin D expression , and accelerated foci formation in soft agar and tumor formation in in vivo transplantation assays .
The expression of HLA - DR was correlated with the histologic type .
A synergistic anti - tumour effect of L - NAME is observed in combination with melphalan and / or TNF using ILP .
Although several hypotheses for human carcinogenesis have been proposed , the specific genetic changes that cause normal cells to become cancer cells have not been identified .
Proteolytic activity is required for the turnover of the extracellular matrix during wound healing .
PURPOSE : The goal of this research was to evaluate a potential therapeutic agent for breast cancer based on galectin - 3 that has been implicated in tumorigenicity and metastasis of breast cancer .
Correlating the results of these two methods and clinicopathological factors , the c - kit expression and c - kit gene mutation rates were 95 . 0 % ( 19 / 20 ) and 0 in benign GIST , and were 98 . 4 % ( 61 / 62 ) , 54 . 8 % ( 34 / 62 ) in malignant GIST .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , a recently identified growth factor with significant angiogenic properties , may be a major tumor angiogenesis regulator .
Loss - of - function effects were also observed in HIF - 1alpha - null embryonic stem cells .
Induction of Ets - 1 in endothelial cells during reendothelialization after denuding injury .
Similar results were obtained with cell lines derived from malignant fibrous histiocytomas , leiomyosarcomas , and liposarcomas .
The organism prevents malignant transformation by assuring accurate DNA repair before cell division , by forcing the death of cells with excessive DNA damage , and by placing limits on the replicative lifespans of most somatic cells .
When the two groups were compared with respect to poor and good CCC , poor CCC was higher in patients with PDR ( 64 vs . 36 % , respectively , p = 0 . 01 ) .
After acquiring and interpreting diagnostic angiograms and repositioning a patient in front of the device , feeder vessel DEP and treatment evaluation required 15 to 20 minutes .
Previous work demonstrates that the LMP1 gene of EBV is sufficient to transform certain established rodent fibroblast cell lines and to induce the tumorigenicity of some human epithelial cell lines .
Leukemic K562 , U937 and HL60 cells expressed Glut - 1 transporter protein .
When MDV was reactivated by treatment of lymphoblastoid cells with 25 micrograms of iododeoxyuridine per ml , the relative levels of the transcripts decreased .
Here we studied the effects of cell morphology on the migration of bovine aortic ECs by culturing cells on micropatterned strips of collagen matrix ( 60 - , 30 - , and 15 - microm wide ) .
Although the exact endpoints are unknown , the large 10 - kb species spans the entire ICP4 homolog region .
In this model , UFT showed a strong angiogenesis - inhibitory effect , whereas 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) and doxifluridine were less effective .
In transgenic embryos , RPE cells proliferated in the anterior part of the eye and near the optic nerve .
A chemokine receptor , CXCR4 , and its endogenous ligand , stromal cell - derived factor - 1 ( SDF - 1 ) , have been recognized to be involved in the metastasis of several types of cancers .
Although vascular casts must be interpreted with caution in light of the possibility of incomplete filling and other artifacts , they are a valuable tool in the study of ocular vasoproliferation .
v - Src morphologically transformed MEFs lacking SWAP - 70 , but growth of the transformed cells in culture was slower than that of cells supplemented with exogenous SWAP - 70 .
Inhibition of the endothelial cell autocrine angiotensin system , with either the angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor lisinopril or the angiotensin II receptor antagonist sar1 , ile8 - angiotensin II , leads to increased endothelial cell migration and urokinase - like plasminogen activator ( u - PA ) activity ( Bell , L . , and J . A . Madri . 1990 . Am . J . Pathol . 137 : 7 - 12 ) .
Blood vessels , capillaries , and endothelial pseudopods were found at greater than 100 microns from the capsule ( subcortex ) .
Marrow cells survived and continued exogenous hemopoiesis for up to six months and were immunohistochemically reactive to basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) .
LeTx also substantially inhibited the extracellular release of angioproliferative factors including vascular endothelial growth factor , interleukin - 8 , and basic fibroblast growth factor .
( c ) 2010 American Cancer Society .
By interacting with Sp1 , HMGA2 interferes with the recruitment of HDAC2 to the hTERT proximal promoter , enhancing localized histone H3 - K9 acetylation and thereby stimulating hTERT expression and telomerase activity .
It was thought that potent antiangiogenic effect of cRGD - HL was probably due to the interference of alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) - mediated interaction , resulting in the enhanced antitumoral activity against SCC7 tumor .
Endothelialization was present at anastomotic sites , but other areas were covered with fresh thrombi .
Human papillomavirus oncoprotein E6 inactivates the transcriptional coactivator human ADA3 .
Knockdown of either Wisp2 or Igf - 1 using short interfering RNA dramatically inhibited proliferation of Tip30 ( - / - ) cells .
Collagen XII is a complex multidomain protein associated with the surface of interstitial collagen fibrils .
Paradoxically , OSM can also suppress the growth of normal cells and certain tumor - derived cell lines .
Interestingly , a survey of a clinical breast cancer surgical database showed that the incidence of asthma was higher among patients with lung metastases .
Angiogenesis is a key event in the progression of malignant gliomas .
There was no correlation between the serum and urine concentrations of IL - 8 and clinical variables , the only exception being the international prognostic index ( IPI ) , which showed a marginal correlation with urine IL - 8 / Cr levels ( P = 0 . 07 ) .
AIMS : In this study we investigated the effect of cisplatin on endothelial cell migration , an essential process for vascular remodeling and regeneration in several physiological and pathological situations .
This cellular interaction was tumor - specific , although isolated granules could enhance fibroblast proliferation .
The resulting mechanistic model confirms previous work proposing that 2 - BE induces macrophage activation and inflammation in the liver .
RESULTS : The bone grafts were found revascularization in 3 days after surgery in the test group , whereas at 2 weeks in the control group .
We have investigated the mechanism by which the simian virus 40 large T antigen ( SVLT ) interferes with the differentiation of C2 myoblasts .
Analysis of promoter hypermethylation of the APC gene was also carried out using methylation - specific PCR ( MS - PCR ) .
Finally , dominant - negative inhibition of Mitf resulted in profound resistance of melanocytes and melanoma cells to HGF - dependent matrix invasion , suggesting a physiologic role for this pathway in melanocytic development and melanoma .
VEGF regulates angiogenesis , which is also a fundamental event in the process of tumor growth and metastatic dissemination .
Crosstalk between these two pathways is also thought to contribute to progression and hormone - refractory prostate disease .
DPD expression did not significantly correlate with the occurrence of lymph node metastasis , nor was it different between primary oral cancer cells and cervical metastases .
Malignant melanoma is characterized by frequent metastasis , however , specific changes that regulate this process have not been clearly delineated .
Therapeutic angiogenesis : a complex problem requiring a sophisticated approach .
Enoxaparine Na had no harmful effects on wound healing , and HBO therapy increased the process of wound healing .
Recently , the role of AQPs in human carcinogenesis has become an area of great interest .
With a p53 - null cell line ( EU - 4 ) , although doxorubicin treatment arrested cells in G ( 2 ) / M , survivin expression was unchanged , and cells underwent only limited apoptosis .
From these results , it was suggested that PPARgamma activation might suppress COX - 2 expression via the nuclear factor - kappaB pathway in the ovarian carcinoma cells and that low expression of PPARgamma and high expression of COX - 2 might be involved in carcinogenesis and progression of ovarian tumours .
Our laboratory has provided evidence that thrombin activates angiogenesis , a process which is essential in tumor growth and metastasis .
The microvessel density ( MVD ) ) decreased from 42 . 4 + / - 4 . 8 to 10 . 5 + / - 3 . 2 per x 200 magnificetion microscopic field by CD10 staining and from 68 . 5 + / - 4 . 5 to 37 . 5 + / - 4 . 6 by CD31 staining , respectively ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
Using univariate analysis , the S - 100beta level and metastatic profile were found to be statistically significant prognostic factors for survival .
The evaluation of immunostaining of Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 was analyzed in 10 different tumor fields , and the mean percentage of tumor cells with positive staining was evaluated .
Following cotransfection of p53 - null EU - 4 cells with survivin promoter - luciferase constructs and either wt - p53 or different mut - p53 expression vectors , wt - p53 inhibited survivin promoter activity ; p53 - mediated inhibition could be abrogated by overexpression of murine double minute2 ( MDM2 ) protein .
Elevated vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) secretion by malignant cells enhanced recruitment of endothelial cells ( EC ) in heterotypic cocultures .
Immunostaining and Western blot revealed a more significant PTEN downregulation in PTEN - methylated CCMs in comparison to PTEN - unmethylated CCMs .
Macrophages are essential mediators of inflammation and wound healing .
Despite an increase in the activation of these signal transducers , the mammary gland of females expressing exogenous Tsg101 developed normally throughout the reproductive cycle .
Aberrant expression of Evi - 1 has been frequently found in myeloid leukemia , and is associated with a poor patient survival .
Repression of E - cadherin by transcriptional regulators such as Snail or Twist emerges as one critical step driving EMT , and this stage is currently being molecularly linked with many of the new players .
In contrast , NIH 3T3 cells are non - tumorigenic but are ras - responsive and become metastatic when transfected with ras .
Human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) and rat aorta smooth muscle cells ( RASMCs ) infected with AdCMV . VEGF165 ( 5 and 20 plaque - forming units [ pfu ] per cell ) demonstrated VEGF mRNA expression and protein secretion into the supernatant .
CONCLUSIONS / SIGNIFICANCE : GK rat islets have increased mRNA expression of markers of early islet endothelial cell activation , possibly triggered by several metabolic factors , and also some defense mechanisms .
To maintain an elevated glycolytic rate , cancerous or proliferating cells alter the expression pattern of rate limiting glycolytic enzymes .
This chapter provides a new intravital microscopic method for detecting and measuring NO - dependent angiogenesis in a mouse model .
The mechanisms whereby RNA leukemia viruses cause lymphoid neoplasia after a long latent period have been extensively studied but are only partially understood .
By contrast , ras - induced tumors were poorly differentiated fibrosarcomas .
Here we present PU24FCl , a representative of the first class of designed Hsp90 inhibitors .
CCL16 induces dose - dependent random and directional migration of endothelial cells isolated from large vessels and liver capillaries without inducing their proliferation .
These new functions of p53 are providing interesting possibilities for the development of novel therapies .
Cells of the highly metastatic lung - colonizing clone MTF7 . T35 . 3 , derived from the 13762NF cell line , were treated for 3 days with 0 . 1 , 1 , or 10 microM all - trans - RA , harvested , and seeded on [ 3H ] proline - labeled extracellular matrix deposited by cultured rat lung endothelial cells or on a film of purified [ 3H ] proline - labeled type IV collagen .
It was shown that large T - antigen showed associated kinase activity , although none of our results could unambiguously demonstrate an intrinsic kinase activity of this protein .
G45 antibody treatment induced SCC tumor apoptosis , decreased SCC tumor proliferation , and markedly impaired human SCC tumorigenesis in vivo without affecting normal tissue adhesion .
Vascular and neoplastic tissue from 14 colonic adenocarcinomas , 13 carcinoids , 6 renal - cell carcinomas and 7 malignant lymphomas were analyzed for somatostatin receptors by use of quantitative receptor autoradiography .
The mechanism of this potent collaboration is elucidated in this study of Runx2 / MYC mice .
A positive correlation between blood vessel volume and bone volume density was found in the younger new - bone area but not in the oldest new - bone area .
Two weeks after injection , there was histological evidence of neovascularization in the tissues surrounding the Matrigel containing AdCMV . VEGF165 , whereas no significant angiogenesis was observed in response to AdCMV . beta gal .
They do not compete with 125I EGF for binding on the EGF receptors of the membrane of A431 cells .
In patients with resectable gastric cancer , the grade of infiltrating dendritic cells may be a suitable predictor of prognosis .
Gene enhancement with IGF - 1 improved donor cell proliferation , survival , and engraftment after cell transplantation , perhaps mediated by enhanced angiogenesis and reduced apoptosis .
Less frequent lesions ( invasive lobular , mucinous , and medullary carcinomas , radial scar ) will be also explained based on radiopathological correlations .
They are important components of the growth regulatory pathways in normal cells .
To test this we generated Nestin - Bmi - 1 - GFP transgenic mice .
Alteration of homeobox gene expression by N - ras transformation of PA - 1 human teratocarcinoma cells .
MMP2 and MMP9 activity were determined by zymographic assay , and MAPK activation by Western blotting analysis .
In addition , densities of the newly formed bones at 16th week were studied .
We have recently found that sodium fluoride ( NaF ) induced apoptotic cell death in tumor cell lines .
PURPOSE : The staging of colorectal cancer , therapeutic decision making in the management of early and advanced colorectal cancer , and dilemmas posed by drug - related toxicity are discussed .
Emodin also induced differentiation of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells by exhibiting a morphological maturation property of large lacy nuclei surrounded by sizable flat cytoplasm and by showing a measurable production of large lipid droplets , which is a marker of mature breast cells .
In a variety of cell types , the glycolipid - anchored urokinase receptor ( uPAR ) is colocalized pericellularly with components of the plasminogen activation system and endocytosis receptors .
These transcripts were localized in stromal fibroblasts adjacent to the neoplastic foci .
Additionally , glutathione depletion and extracellular signal - regulated kinase ( ERK ) inactivation was observed in EPOX - treated cells .
To address this , the Severe Chronic Neutropenia International Registry ( SCNIR ) used its large database of chronic neutropenia patients treated with G - CSF to determine the incidence of malignant myeloid transformation in the two disorders , and its relationship to treatment and to other patient characteristics .
Thus , nicked beta2GPI exerts dual effects on angiogenesis , that is , nicked beta2GPI promotes angiogenesis in the presence of AS4 . 5 , whereas nicked beta2GPI inhibits angiogenesis at concentrations high enough to neutralize AS4 . 5 .
OBJECTIVE : We transfected ovarian cancer cells and administered recombinant plasmid encoding hPNAS - 4 to nude mice bearing ovarian cancer , aiming to evaluate the effect of hPNAS - 4 against ovarian cancer in vitro and in vivo .
A specific VEGF receptor - 2 inhibitor demonstrated the importance of glycogen metabolism and pentose cycle pathway .
Microvessel density and ECP % were inversely correlated ( Rho = - 0 . 26 , P = 0 . 001 ) .
Similarly , perivascular inflammatory T - cells expressed more antiapoptotic proteins in irreversible PHT ( p less than 0 . 01 ) .
By introducing a cDNA library derived from rat embryonic fibroblast cells , we isolated several morphologically flat revertants of rat 3Y1 cells transformed by the E6 and E7 genes of human papillomavirus type 18 ( HPV18 ) .
Granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor and interleukin - 3 enhance the incorporation of cytosine arabinoside into the DNA of leukemic blasts and the cytotoxic effect on clonogenic cells from patients with acute myeloid leukemia .
The merits of vascular targeting for gynecologic malignancies .
Here , we show that the proto - oncogene N - myc promoter was down - regulated by WT1 in transient transfection assays .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : c - erbB2 , evaluated by immunohistochemistry in 145 of 173 patients randomly assigned to 2 - year adjuvant tamoxifen or no further therapy , was considered overexpressed if greater than 10 % of the cells showed specific membrane staining .
The sensitivity and specificity of s - VEGF at the cut - off level of 100 pg / ml , as determined by the receiver - operating - characteristics curve , were 80 . 0 % and 72 . 5 % , respectively .
F - 2 cells cultured on Matrigel showed evident tube formation , and coculture of F - 2 cells with A431 cells led to the formation of A431 cell nests constantly surrounded by tube - like networks consisting of F - 2 cells .
The MVD and Ki - 67 LI were higher , and the AI was lower in the SCC with VEGF / p53 coexpression than in those without the coexpression .
Genomic instability is one mechanism proposed to play a role in the disease progression of chronic myeloid leukemia ( CML ) .
Compared with BM - MSC , FM - MSC secreted a comparable amount of hepatocyte growth factor despite a small amount of vascular endothelial growth factor .
This study investigates HIF - 1alpha , c - Myc , pAkt , and aerobic glycolysis in low - passage breast cancer cells under the assumption that these represent the in vivo condition better than established lines .
The activity of type IV collagenase , which enables tumor cells to degrade collagen type IV found in the subendothelial basement membrane , has been correlated with the metastatic potential in several tumor types , including the rat 13762NF mammary adenocarcinoma cell line and its clones .
Augmented lymphangiogenesis was observed within tumors when HEC1A / VEGF - C cells were inoculated .
In human colon carcinoma Colo205 and HT29 xenografts grown in human endosialin - transgenic mice , endosialin expression was largely confined to NG2 - expressing perivascular cells and not CD31 - positive endothelial cells .
Constitutively active RhoA ( FRTL - 5 - RhoA QL cells ) exhibited a fibroblast - like phenotype with organized actin fibers , whereas cells expressing the RhoA negative dominant phenotype ( FRTL - 5 - RhoA N19 cells ) present a rounded morphology and lose normal cytoskeletal architecture .
These data strongly implicate the BR - SMADs as part of a critical developmental pathway in ovaries and testis that , when disrupted , leads to malignant transformation .
Potential roles for focal adhesion kinase in development .
The increased expression of MMP - 9 was also shown in CNE1 - GL cells by Western blot analysis .
CONCLUSIONS : Galectin - 3C is not overtly toxic , and is efficacious in reducing metastases and tumor volumes and weights in primary tumors in an orthotopic nude mouse model of human breast cancer .
Indeed , in the reported cases it was possible to vacuum dry and reconstitute the proteins without any aggregation or loss in protein and biological activity .
Because these phenomena are all of critical importance during morphogenesis , and because FAK is expressed in embryonic cells , evidence has been accumulating to indicate that FAK may be an important modulator of developmental processes .
Recent reports suggest that elevated levels of plasminogen activator inhibitor - 1 ( PAI - 1 ) may contribute to tumour progression .
Anagen - associated angiogenesis offers an attractive model for identifying the physiologic controls of cutaneous angiogenesis , and an interesting system for screening the effects of potential antiangiogenic drugs in vivo .
Runx2 and MYC collaborate in lymphoma development by suppressing apoptotic and growth arrest pathways in vivo .
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES : Chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) is the most common leukemia in the western world .
The aim of the present study was to investigate the frequency of the less common p . Val600Lys ( V600K ) mutation in metastatic melanoma from a high incidence region .
Moreover , there is a positive correlation between phosphoS727 - Stat3 expression and Gleason score in these prostate cancer tissues ( P = 0 . 05 ) .
The level of VEGF expression correlated inversely with the degree of splenomegaly ( Pearson , r = - 0 . 400 , p = 0 . 011 ) .
We produced a transgenic mouse line that expresses simian virus ( SV40 ) transforming sequences under control of the 1 . 4 kb tyrosinase - related protein 1 ( TRP - 1 ) promoter , targeting expression of T antigen ( Tag ) to the RPE .
Increases in these mRNA levels were similar in tumors of both low and high metastatic potential .
What was observed , however , was the multistep acquisition of aberrant cellular genetic changes in marrow cells from patients who transformed , including activating ras oncogene mutations , clonal cytogenetic abnormalities , and G - CSF receptor mutations .
[ Photodynamic therapy in severe chronic central serous chorioretinopaty ]
Despite considerable efforts in understanding the cellular mechanisms contributing to pancreatic cancer , the prognosis of this malignant disease is still extremely poor .
Oral squamous cell carcinoma ( OSCC ) often metastasizes to the lymph nodes , and these enzymes may be significant in the survival of patients with this disease .
This model suggests that forced expression of CDK4 sensitizes cells and synergizes with a second change resulting in tumor development .
To elucidate the role of free radicals and leukocytes in MTX - induced oxidative organ damage and the putative protective effect of L - carnitine ( L - Car ) , Wistar albino rats were administered a single dose of MTX ( 20 mg / kg ) followed by either saline or L - Car ( 500 mg / kg ) for 5 days .
Magnitude of malate - aspartate reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide shuttle activity in intact respiring tumor cells .
Uncultured peripheral blood T - cells from human T - cell leukemia - lymphoma virus - infected individuals expressed DR antigens at a low level , and the DR alpha locus was partially unmethylated .
Autocrine angiotensin system regulation of bovine aortic endothelial cell migration and plasminogen activator involves modulation of proto - oncogene pp60c - src expression .
Estradiol increases IL - 8 secretion of normal human breast tissue and breast cancer in vivo .
Normal cells are 10 - to 50 - fold more resistant to these effects .
The dynamic uptake of the glucose analogue [ 18F ] FDG was measured in diseased nodes and upper arm skeletal muscle in both metabolic states .
Here we review the recent evidence of a simple genetic mechanism by which tumor suppressor p53 regulates mitochondrial respiration with secondary changes in glycolysis that are reminiscent of the Warburg effect .
Hypermethylation and loss of final sigma expression are the most consistent molecular alterations in breast cancer identified so far .
Taken together , these results show for the first time that active RhoA is able to transform FRTL - 5 cells and that this effect is coupled to a loss of thyroid differentiation due to impaired TTF - 1 activity .
Recent studies using avian retrovirus - mediated introduction of oncogenes into a small subset of somatic mammary cells suggest that polyoma middle T antigen ( PyMT ) may also preferentially transform stem / progenitor cells .
Assessment of starved HUVECs at 14 days demonstrated sixfold more cells for AdCMV . VEGF165 - infected HUVECs ( 20 pfu per cell ) than for either infected or uninfected control cells .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : Urine from 81 patients with RDEB ( 39 patients ) , junctional epidermolysis bullosa ( JEB ; 12 patients ) , and epidermolysis bullosa simplex ( EBS ; 30 patients ) , as well as unaffected family members of RDEB patients ( 33 patients ) , was tested for the presence of basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) using a sensitive radioimmunoassay .
These findings reveal what we believe to be a novel pathogenic process with important implications for the development of new therapies for AMD .
It is proposed that these proteins be called , respectively , p40xI and p37xII .
The initial wave of ERK activity ( 5 - 120 min ) was refractory to integrin antagonists , whereas the sustained activity ( 4 - 20 h ) depended on integrin alphavbeta3 , but not beta1 integrins .
To understand the molecular basis of carcinogenesis from the beginning to the full acquirement of malignancy , factors concerned with carcinogenesis were categorized into three groups : those guarding and stabilizing genomes , those regulating cell proliferation , and those conferring resistance to various micro - environmental stresses .
Identification of Dss1 as a 12 - O - tetradecanoylphorbol - 13 - acetate - responsive gene expressed in keratinocyte progenitor cells , with possible involvement in early skin tumorigenesis .
In contrast , the growth of tumors requires constant vascular growth and remodeling in order for solid tumors to grow beyond 1 - 2 mm ( 3 ) in size .
This treatment also changed the mitochondrial membrane potential in both MG - 63 and SaOS - 2 cells within 1h , caused chromatin condensation and the formation of apoptotic bodies .
Effect of transplanted mesenchymal stem cells from rats of different ages on the improvement of heart function after acute myocardial infarction .
As a result , GSE could inhibit VEGF - induced endothelial cell proliferation and migration as well as sprout formation from aorta ring .
Enforced expression of tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase - 3 affects functional capillary morphogenesis and inhibits tumor growth in a murine tumor model .
Many of these metastases presumably arise from primary lung carcinomas , but the morphologic features and immunohistochemical profile of lung cancer is often too nonspecific to permit unequivocal confirmation .
Here , we investigate the role of TSP - 1 in tumor - stroma reaction , which is mainly characterized by fibroblast activation to create a permissive microenvironment for tumor progression .
RESULTS : IL - 12 - expressing RM - 9 prostate carcinoma cells transplanted into C57BL / J6 mice grew more slowly than control RM - 9 cells and vector control RM - 9 - Luc cells .
This study investigated the expression of TS and DPD in cervical lymph node metastases and its relationship with primary OSCC , as well as the interaction between these enzymes and Kangai 1 ( KAI1 / CD82 ) which is a metastasis suppressor protein .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : Twenty - one patients with radiation retinopathy ( edema , hemorrhages , capillary dropout , and neovascularization ) and a subjective or objective loss of vision were treated .
s - VEGF was also measured before , 4 and 8 weeks after nephrectomy in 11 patients .
Furthermore , the biological activity of FGF - BP is neutralized by monoclonal antibodies suggesting the potential for antibody - based therapeutic targeting .
Roles of brca2 ( fancd1 ) in oocyte nuclear architecture , gametogenesis , gonad tumors , and genome stability in zebrafish .
The apparent molecular weights of the collagenolytic enzymes were determined by electrophoresis of cell extracts and concentrated conditioned medium in type IV collagen - embedded polyacrylamide gels followed by renaturation and activation of the enzymes within the gels .
Inhibition of Akt , however , does not fully attenuate p - XSC - mediated downregulation of AR activity , suggesting that inhibition of AR signaling by p - XSC does not occur solely through alterations in the phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase / Akt survival pathway .
Glucose deprivation enhanced death receptor - triggered formation of death - inducing signaling complex and early processing of procaspase - 8 .
We demonstrate that a proteoglycan decorin ( DCN ) up - regulates the vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression with activation of VEGF regulating transcription factors Sp1 , hypoxia - inducible factor 1alpha ( HIF1alpha ) , and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 ( Stat3 ) via epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) , mitogen - activated protein kinase extracellular signal - regulated kinase 1 / 2 ( ERK1 / 2 ) , and protein kinase B ( AKT ) pathways in DCN transfected mouse cerebral endothelial ( MCE ) cells .
The aim of this study was to compare angiogenesis parameters in low nuclear grade ( n = 87 ) vs high nuclear grade CC - RCC ( n = 63 ) .
METHODS AND MATERIALS : The prospective trial included 287 patients with subfoveal neovascularization due to AMD which was verified by fluorescein angiography .
To test this hypothesis , the frequency of metastasis to the lung as a function of allergic pulmonary inflammation was assessed following the i . v . injection of B16 - F10 melanoma cells in mice .
CONCLUSION : This angiogenesis assay based on human fat tissue uses three - dimensionally intact human tissue .
[ Role of the tumor suppressor ARF in oncogenesis ]
One such receptor , VEGFR - 2 / KDR , plays a key role in VEGF - induced angiogenesis .
The glucose turnover rate was significantly greater in TB compared with NTB animals , as was the rate of glucose recycling and the rate of gluconeogenesis ( alanine leads to glucose ) , both energy demanding processes .
In this study , we used a Cdkn2a - deficient mouse melanocyte cell line to screen for secondary genetic events in melanoma tumor progression .
A marginally significant association was also noted between the h - MVD and patient survival ( P = . 056 ) .
Solid tumors must establish a blood supply in order to proliferate and grow .
Strong staining for bFGF was also found in cardiac muscle fibers , smooth muscle cells of mid - size blood vessels , the gut and the myometrium , in central nervous system neurons and cerebellar Purkinje cells , and on epithelial cells of the bronchi , colon , endometrium , and sweat gland ducts of the skin .
Artemisinin inhibits tumor lymphangiogenesis by suppression of vascular endothelial growth factor C .
In cervical cancer cells , paclitaxel induced apoptosis through an intrinsic pathway with prior G2 / M arrest .
Spontaneous metastasis indicates a possible reverse correlation .
In the present study the effects of the 48 - hour administration of granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor ( GM - CSF ) ( 100 U / mL ) or interleukin - 3 ( IL - 3 ) ( 100 U / mL ) on the proliferative activity of leukemic cells and on the intracellular metabolism and cytotoxic efficacy of a subsequent 12 - hour application of cytosine arabinoside ( ara - C ) at doses of 0 . 1 , 1 . 0 , 10 . 0 , and 100 . 0 mumol / L were evaluated on bone marrow cells from 17 patients with acute myeloid leukemia .
CONCLUSION : Down - regulated expression of PTEN gene is found in different stages of gastric carcinoma , and is closely correlated with LOH of its epigenetic microsatellites , which probably is its underlying molecular mechanisms .
Prognostic value of HLA - DR expression and dendritic cell infiltration in gastric cancer .
In addition , p21 - or p16 - mediated growth arrest did not protect glioma cells from E2F - 1 - mediated apoptosis .
This strategy may be of significant value in laying the foundation for a more explicit anti - tumor angiogenesis therapy .
The additional function of Pten as a dual - specificity protein phosphatase may also play a role in glioma pathogenesis .
Carcinogenesis and transcriptional regulation through Maf recognition elements .
Tumor angiogenesis might contribute to tumor malignant progression by inhibiting spontaneous apoptosis in LSCC .
Nevertheless , its precise physiological role has not yet been established , and both anti - apoptotic and pro - apoptotic functions have been suggested for this gene .
Coronary collateral circulation ( CCC ) was analyzed according to the Rentrop system .
The MVD and Ki - 67 LI were significantly higher ( p less than 0 . 01 and p less than 0 . 001 ) , and the AI was significantly lower ( p less than 0 . 001 ) in the SCC with p53 protein expression than in the SCC without it .
It is therefore highly likely that these alterations are an important component in tumor resistance to therapy .
Activated Hck and membrane - anchored Cbl are present in similar subcellular localizations and co - immunoprecipitate , suggesting that their interaction is required for subsequent ubiquitination and degradation .
Oncogenic mechanisms of Evi - 1 protein .
In MatrigelTM invasion assays , all subclones , which secreted enzymatically active ATX , demonstrated greater spontaneous and ATX - stimulated invasion than appropriate controls .
The results showed 0 . 01 mM GA induced the same level of cell toxicity as 4 . 0mM PCA .
The p53 protein functions to prevent tumour development by inhibiting the outgrowth of stressed or damaged cells .
Therapeutic angiogenesis is the biological agents or bioactive material to stimulate the growth of new blood vessels .
Mouse p10 , an alternative spliced form of p15INK4b , inhibits cell cycle progression and malignant transformation .
In contrast , the implants that were irradiated three times ( single fractions at 0 , 24 , and 48 hours after implantation ) demonstrated significantly diminished ( greater than 25 percent , p less than 0 . 05 ) neovascularization beyond day 7 , whereas implants irradiated only at 48 hours after implantation did not .
Although many studies have been carried out to investigate the chemopreventive role of flavonoids , less attention has been focused on phenolic acids .
Growth inhibition correlated with decreased cellular proliferation and extensive necrosis , and it was accompanied by a decrease in tumor mean vessel density as well as a reduction in serum expression of angioproliferative cytokines .
The 5T4 antigen is a transmembrane glycoprotein with a 310 amino acid extracellular domain and a 44 amino acid cytoplasmic domain .
Activation of MybER both prevented the growth arrest induced by interleukin - 6 ( IL - 6 ) and rapidly restored c - myc expression in nearly terminal differentiated cells that had been exposed to IL - 6 for 3 days .
GM - CSF or IL - 2 vaccines or gammaIFN decreased tumor nodules significantly ( GM - CSF 13 + / - 4 , IL - 2 14 + / - 6 vs . control 75 + / - 24 , P < 0 . 001 ) .
Simian virus 40 large T antigen ( SV40 Tag ) was introduced into a normal human first trimester invasive EVT cell line , HTR8 , established in our laboratory .
CONCLUSION : A study of both alpha - catenin and p53 expression may be helpful to predict lymph node metastases in early gastric cancer .
Previous studies reported that the Tumor Susceptibility Gene 101 ( TSG101 ) is upregulated in selected human malignancies , and the expression of exogenous Tsg101 was suggested to transform immortalized fibroblasts in culture .
M - CSF signals through the MAPK / ERK pathway via Sp1 to induce VEGF production and induces angiogenesis in vivo .
Close surveillance for arterial and venous thrombotic events is recommended .
Regulation of skin microvasculature angiogenesis , cell migration , and permeability by a specific inhibitor of PKCalpha .
Assays of electrophoretic mobility , DNA - binding specificity , and antigenicity indicated that Stat3 or a closely related STAT family member was constitutively activated by the Src oncoprotein .
Thalidomide at the concentrations of 0 . 01 microM and 10 microM inhibited VEGF secretion into supernatants , decreased the number of formed capillary tubes and increased cell adhesion to collagen .
We investigated the presence of COUP - TFII in human colorectal cancer tissues and adjacent normal tissues from 95 primary colorectal cancer patients by immunohistochemistry .
Interleukin - 8 ( IL - 8 ) is known to be a pro - inflammatory and pro - angiogenic cytokine , and IL - 8 has been reported to be associated with tumor progression , prognosis and survival in several types of cancers .
Microvascular density and vascular endothelial growth factor immunoreactivity as predictors of regional lymph node metastasis from betel - associated oral squamous cell carcinoma .
Ovarian cancer is a highly metastatic disease .
A series of epithelial cell lines and a single fibroblast cell line established in this way were analysed for the presence of transforming genes by DNA transfection into NIH3T3 cells .
HYPOTHESIS : This study was designed to compare coronary collateral circulation ( CCC ) in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy ( PDR ) with that in patients without DR .
A cohort of unspecified mesodermal cells differentiates into primitive endothelial cells , which migrate to and occupy positions within the stereotypical blueprint of the primitive vasculature .
Silencing of directional migration in roundabout4 knockdown endothelial cells .
Ki - 67 labeling index ( LI ) was calculated , based on Ki - 67 antigen immunostaining , as a proliferative marker .
Overexpression of Glut - 1 glucose transporter in human breast cancer .
On the other hand , MnSO4 only induced transformation in Rat 6 / c - myc cells , but not the parental Rat 6 cells .
In this study , we investigated the effects of caffeine on HIF - 1 protein accumulation and on VEGF and IL - 8 expression in the human colon cancer cell line HT29 under hypoxic conditions .
In order to elucidate a mechanism for cancer - induced osteoclastogenesis , cells from a human breast cancer line , MDA - MB - 231 , were directly co - cultured with ST2 , MC3T3 - E1 , or with primary mouse calvarial cells .
Patients whose tumors were CD40 - negative showed a significantly better N stage , overall stage at presentation and survival than those patients with CD40 - positive patients .
Transgenic mice engineered to express human endosialin bred on an immunocompromised background allowed the growth of human tumor xenografts .
METHODS : MSCs from Sprague - Dawley ( SD ) rats were isolated and cultured in vitro .
The p53 tumor suppressor plays pivotal role in the organism by supervising strict compliance of individual cells to needs of the whole organisms .
The higher mortality rate in the folate - deficient group compared with the other two groups ( 25 % versus 6 . 5 % and 5 . 6 % , P < 0 . 02 ) partially accounted for the low incidence of high - grade lesions in this group .
Little is known about the specificity of angiogenic properties of oral cancer cells and the possible mechanisms .
CONCLUSIONS : Enoxaparine Na decreased intra - abdominal adhesions , and HBO therapy had no beneficial effect on adhesions .
In the aqueous fluid , VEGF levels were increased in diabetics ( mean values : 501 vs . 367 pg / ml ; p = 0 . 05 ) , compared to controls .
Matrix metalloproteinase - 2 staining was observed exclusively in fibroblasts , reaching maximum levels 8 - 12 weeks after surgery , decreasing by 1 . 5 years but remaining significantly increased .
The expression of TIMP1 suggests that the anti - proteolytic stimuli may be preponderant in p63 - positive carcinomas .
Activation of AP - 1 in skin was detected as early as 2 weeks following Cum - OOH or TPA exposure .
We conclude that stimulation of a putative growth factor signal pathway , associated with ras - induced proliferation , transiently suppresses the induction of transcription factors functionally involved in cell growth and differentiation .
Clinically , patients with advanced cancer are usually in a hypercoagulable state with elevated fibrinogen , and fibrin deposition around tumor mass is a serious problem in cancer chemotherapy .
These results suggest a role for HS chains of perlecan in improving graft patency by selectively promoting endothelial cell proliferation while modulating platelet adhesion .
c - myc is a major target that transduces Myb ' s proliferative signal , as shown by the ability of a c - Myc - estrogen receptor fusion protein alone to also reverse growth arrest in this system .
Angiogenic activity in samples of patients from the control group was generally inhibitory due to PEDF , and inhibition was blocked by neutralizing antibodies to PEDF .
Thymidylate synthase ( TS ) and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase ( DPD ) are 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) metabolizing enzymes and are involved in the sensitivity of carcinoma patients to 5 - FU .
In recent years , investigating the metabolic changes within cancer cells has been a rapidly growing area .
These results could explain the angiogenic and tumor - promoting effect of thrombin and provide the basis for development of thrombin receptor mimetics or antagonists for therapeutic application .
However , it is clear that the Notch signaling pathway mediates its effects through intercellular contact between neighboring cells .
[ Effect of osteopontin silencing by lentivirus - mediated delivery of siRNA on glioma cell invasion and apoptosis ] .
Low - level X - radiation effects on functional vascular changes in Syrian hamster cheek pouch epithelium during hydrocarbon carcinogenesis .
Immunofluorescence was used to observe the differentiation of the grafted cells into cardiomyocytes .
The Mr 64 , 000 enzyme could be extracted from viable cells ( presumably from the cell membrane ) by 2 % 1 - butanol .
These data suggest that angiogenesis in operable non - small cell lung cancer is a major prognostic factor for survival and , among the parameters tested , is the only factor related to cancer cell migration to lymph nodes .
Overexpression of JNK1 or p38 was sufficient to induce HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression .
Electronmicroscopically , thrombus formation in the primary site prevented tumor invasion and metastasis formation .
Caspase activation , mitochondrial depolarization , and cytochrome c release were increased under these conditions .
KISS1 transcript expression remained an independent prognosticator in multivariate analyses ( P = 0 . 017 ) .
hADA3 functions as a coactivator for p53 - mediated transactivation by stabilizing p53 protein .
Placed in the framework of other recently published work , the observations of Villani et al . both raise questions about the cell of origin for basal cell cancers and define additional putative therapeutic and preventive targets for this disease .
Interleukin - 6 has been shown to be associated with tumor progression including inhibition of cancer cells apoptosis and stimulation of angiogenesis .
Membrane - anchored Cbl suppresses Hck protein - tyrosine kinase mediated cellular transformation .
Both the erbA IRES and the erbA / myb IRES virus constructs transformed erythroid cells after infection of bone marrow or blastoderm cultures .
Allergic pulmonary inflammation promotes the recruitment of circulating tumor cells to the lung .
The transforming growth factor beta ( TGFbeta ) family has critical roles in the regulation of fertility .
Cyclooxygenase - 2 ( COX - 2 ) inhibitors are anti - inflammatory agents , which have potent anti - inflammatory , anti - angiogenic and analgesic properties yet do not affect platelet function in the manner of traditional non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs .
A 24 - h exposure of cells to all - trans - RA was sufficient to cause a 30 % decrease in the collagenolytic activity , and this inhibitory effect was reversible .
Dietary CLA decreased serum levels of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and whole mammary gland levels of VEGF and its receptor Flk - 1 .
The mice were treated by intratumoral injection of 2 x 10 ( 9 ) pfu Ad - mEndostatin .
The inhibition of platelet activation with prostaglandin E1 ( PGE ( 1 ) ) attenuated the invasive capacity of SKOV3 cells .
CONCLUSION : These results suggest that 16 Gy of conventionally fractionated external beam irradiation slows down the visual loss in exudative AMD for only a few months .
The stimulation of inositol phosphate generation in control and ras - gene - transformed NIH - 3T3 cells by prostaglandin F2 alpha ( PGF2 alpha ) was investigated .
TEL is biallelically disrupted in acute leukemia , and loss of heterozygosity at the TEL locus has been observed in various cancers .
In our study , MOG was shown to specifically inhibit the growth of human leukemia cell lines and primary acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) blasts via induction of apoptosis , with the evidence of mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss , reactive oxygen species production , caspases activation and nuclear fragmentation .
This inhibition was blocked by the neutralizing anti - TGF - beta 2G7 antibody but not by a nonspecific IgG2 .
Thus , supplementation with L - Carnitine as an adjuvant therapy may be promising in alleviating the systemic side - effects of chemotherapeutics .
By using Northern hybridization , RNase protection assays , and primer extension analysis , the MSRs were determined to map antisense to the predicted translational start site of the ICP4 homolog gene .
METHODS : We assessed antiapoptotic and proapoptotic markers in vascular and perivascular cells in lung biopsy samples from 18 patients with CHD , 7 with reversible and 11 with irreversible PHT , and 6 control patients .
These findings indicated that DATS inhibits tumor growth in an allograft animal model .
[ Retinochoroidopathy after intravitreal anti - VEGF treatment ]
The E1B - 55kDa product has been shown to exhibit intrinsic transcriptional repression activity when localized to promoters , such as by fusion with the GAL4 DNA - binding domain , even in the absence of p53 .
We will also discuss several patents regarding inhibitors of VEGF action in the present review .
We previously showed that disruption of TGF - beta signaling by dominant - negative TGF - beta type II receptor in a diffuse - type gastric carcinoma model accelerated tumor growth through induction of tumor angiogenesis by decreased expression of the anti - angiogenic factor thrombospondin ( TSP ) - 1 .
A growing body of evidence indicates that deregulation of stem cell fate determinants is a hallmark of many types of malignancies .
Participation of p53 cellular tumour antigen in transformation of normal embryonic cells .
Histological examination of tumors from linomide - treated animals revealed marked avascularity .
The threshold level of adenomatous polyposis coli protein for mouse intestinal tumorigenesis .
In this review , the role of TSH - R gene alterations in benign and malignant thyroid neoplasia is examined .
Vascular endothelial growth factor - C ( VEGF - C ) plays a crucial role in lymphangiogenesis , and is implicated to play an important role in lymph node metastasis .
Regulation of transforming growth factor - beta signaling and vascular diseases .
Inhibition of autophagy potentiates the antitumor effect of the multikinase inhibitor sorafenib in hepatocellular carcinoma .
These results demonstrate that functional collaboration exists between p18 and Men1 and suggest that Men1 may regulate additional factor ( s ) that interact with p18 and p27 differently .
Moreover , we showed that combination of E1A gene therapy and SAHA showed high therapeutic efficacy with low toxicity in vivo ovarian and breast xenograft models .
The therapeutic efficacy of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS was determined by monitoring tumor volume , survival rate , and degree of neovascularization after treatment in these models .
Opinions on 3 areas were sought : pulp therapy for cariously involved primary teeth ; indirect pulp treatment ( IPT ) for cariously involved immature permanent teeth ; and innovative treatment options including pulpal revascularization and regeneration .
Human cervical cancer cells ( CaSki and SiHa ) were injected into the flanks of nude mice .
Insulin - like growth factor - I receptor - mediated vasculogenesis / angiogenesis in human lung development .
Furthermore , overexpression of TLX in Ink4a / Arf ( - / - ) astrocytes inhibited cell migration and invasion and promoted neurosphere formation and Nestin expression , which are hallmark characteristics of glioma stem cells , under stem cell culture conditions .
FM - MSC were obtained from Lewis rats and had surface antigen expression and multipotent potential partly similar to those of BM - MSC .
Non - invasive grading of primary brain tumours : results of a comparative study between SPET with 123I - alpha - methyl tyrosine and PET with 18F - deoxyglucose .
We found that GSE could directly inhibit the kinase activity of purified VEGF receptor 2 , a novel activity of GSE that has not been characterized .
A novel peptide ligand , A5 - 1 ( VILVLF ) , with high affinity to integrin alpha5beta1 was identified from the hexapeptide libraries with this chip - based screening method on the basis of a competitive inhibition assay .
Insulin - induced vascular endothelial growth factor expression in retina .
The pigment epithelium of the retina ( RPE ) is derived from the optic cup and is essential for function and development of the eye .
In contrast , at least some of these sites were not methylated in DNA from the B - cells expressing high levels of DR alpha mRNA .
Here , we demonstrate that D2 dopamine receptor ( D2DR ) colocalizes with VEGFR - 2 at the cell surface .
Increased expression of specific protein tyrosine phosphatases in human breast epithelial cells neoplastically transformed by the neu oncogene .
[ Altered expression of PTEN gene and LOH of its epigenetic microsatellite in gastric carcinoma ] .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : We used rAAV2 / 5 to deliver vasostatin intratumorally or systemically in different mouse lung tumor models - - subcutaneous , orthotopic xenograft , and spontaneous metastasis lung tumor models .
Additionally , 3 - BrPA treatment significantly impaired lactate production by HepG2 cells , even when glucose was withdrawn from the incubation medium .
Phosphatase and tension homolog deleted on chromosome 10 ( PTEN ) , a tumor suppressor , is frequently deficient in various pathologies due to mutation or epigenetic alterations .
We investigated the biological significance of estrogen receptors ( ERs ) in NIH3T3 cell transformation by the [ 12Val ] K - Ras mutant .
This implies that enhancing Nrf2 activity is a promising method for thwarting cancer .
IGF - 1 - transfected cells demonstrated greater cell proliferation , stimulated angiogenesis , and decreased caspase - 3 activity after simulated ischemia and reperfusion ( P less than 0 . 05 for all groups compared with vector or cell controls ) .
A diagnosis of advanced gastric cancer with extensive lymph node metastases and multiple pulmonary metastases was made .
This study uses quantitative histomorphometry and double - immunohistologic detection techniques for the demarcation of proliferating endothelial cells , to show that synchronized hair follicle cycling in adolescent C57BL / 6 mice is associated with substantial angiogenesis , and that inhibiting angiogenesis in vivo by the intraperitoneal application of a fumagillin derivative retards experimentally induced anagen development in these mice .
Metronomic chemotherapy ( the frequent , long term , low dose administration of chemotherapeutic drugs ) is a promising therapy because it enhances the anti - endothelial activity of conventional chemotherapeutics , but with lower or no toxic effects compared to maximum tolerated dose administration .
VEGF is the key player in tumor angiogenesis .
The purpose of the immune system is to protect cells from invasion by microorganisms .
Laminin - 332 is critical for squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) tumorigenesis , but targeting it for cancer therapy has been unachievable due to key role of laminin - 332 in promoting tissue integrity .
CONCLUSION : Our results might support the idea that hyperfibrinogenemia can augment lymphatic and hematogeneous metastasis of advanced gastric cancer , which is major determinant of the prognosis in T2 gastric cancer .
PTEN promoter hypermethylation is a major epigenetic silencing mechanism leading to activation of angiogenesis in tumors .
PTTG overexpression correlated with lymph node metastasis ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Grape seed extract ( GSE ) , a widely used dietary supplement , is known to have antitumor activity .
Hence orally active blockers of TNF - alpha that are safe , efficacious and inexpensive are urgently needed .
MDA - MB - 231 cells alone or breast cancer samples did not express RANKL mRNA .
5 - Azacytidine , a potent DNA methylation inhibitor , induced growth of large colonies in soft agar cultures of Rat 6 or Rat 6 / c - myc cells .
RESULTS : Insulin increased VEGF mRNA levels in the ganglion , inner nuclear , and RPE cell layers .
Aglycon of rhizochalin from the Rhizochalina incrustata induces apoptosis via activation of AMP - activated protein kinase in HT - 29 colon cancer cells .
However , the maximum decrease approached 100 % in stationary cultures versus approximately 75 % in growing cells .
Recent studies , however , indicate that even under normal physiological conditions certain activities of p53 participate in homeostatic regulation of metabolic processes and that these activities are important for prevention of cancer .
OBJECTIVE : The expansion of adipose tissue is linked to the development of its vasculature .
Eleven genes were identified whose expression changed significantly in response to carcinogen treatment .
It has been suggested that the expression of this protein may be of prognostic significance in gastric , colorectal , and bladder carcinomas .
Since ras genes have been found to be frequently activated in human tumours , we examined the levels of ras p21 in the sera of a variety of human cancer patients .
Then , we examined the role of two major downstream molecules of Crk , Rac1 and Rap1 .
Transduction of BMSVTs with hTERT resulted in immortalization of 4 out of 4 cultures .
We also observe that SHP - 2 knockdown impairs the dopamine - regulated inhibition of VEGF - induced phosphorylation of VEGFR - 2 and , subsequently , Src phosphorylation and migration .
The increased migration ability and the invasive ability into tumor cluster of TGF - beta - treated NIH3T3 cells were dose dependently inhibited by TSP - 1 .
[ Expression of metastasis suppressor gene nm23 in human hepatocellular carcinoma ] .
Thrombospondin is a potent inhibitor of angiogenesis and might therefore be important in controlling tumour growth .
These results suggest that desensitization of certain agonist - induced inositol phospholipid responses in ras - transformed cells is a consequence of increased cell proliferation and associated amplification in C - kinase activity and is an indirect consequence of transformation by ras .
These data highlight sanguinarine as a novel potential agent for bone cancer therapy .
The expression of HMGA2 modulates the expression of hTERT , resulting in cells with enhanced telomerase activities and increased telomere length .
CONCLUSION : The present series supports the theory that opticin is produced by the non - pigmented CBE throughout adult life .
TP catalyzes the conversion of thymidine to thymine and doxyribose - 1 - phosphate ( dR - 1 - P ) .
During lymphomagenesis , induction of persistent telomerase expression and activity may occur before or after telomere shortening , as a consequence of the different mechanisms through which transforming factors / agents may activate telomerase .
Besides their direct toxicity GDPs promote formation of advanced glycation endproducts ( AGEs ) .
The goals of this study were to determine the mRNA and protein expressions of KISS1 and MMP - 9 in NSCLC and their relations to metastasis and prognosis .
Thrombin and SFLLR activated progelatinase A ( MMP - 2 ) in the culture medium of human umbilical cord endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) .
RESULTS : Our results revealed that docetaxel and ATRA were synergistically cytotoxic and apoptotic in DU - 145 cells , in a dose - and time dependent manner .
Topo I protein expression was detected in 127 ( 51 % ) samples , including 24 . 4 % with > 50 % positive tumor cells .
This induction was due to activation of autophagic flux , as there was further increase in LC3 - II expression upon treatment with lysosomal inhibitors , clear decline of the autophagy substrate p62 , and an mRFP - GFP - LC3 fluorescence change in sorafenib - treated hepatoma cells .
Increased apoptosis of tumor cells and decreased angiogenesis in tumor tissue were also observed .
Using a combination of two dimensional electrophoresis ( 2 - DE ) and MALDI - TOF mass spectrometry , a total of 125 proteins and their post - translational modification forms or isoforms were found to be differentially expressed in the cell lines .
Cancer is no longer considered by scientists just a jumble of mutated cells .
Together , our results provide not only a novel insight into the mechanisms underlying anti - tumor activity of E1A , but also a rationale for the combined HDACi and E1A gene therapy in future clinical trials .
Recent studies have demonstrated that tumor cells treated with antibodies specific for beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin ( beta ( 2 ) M ) or major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) class I molecules undergo apoptosis in vitro and in vivo ( mouse models ) .
In these settings TNF demonstrates potent and selective activity on the tumor vascular bed , which strongly improves tumor response .
Effect of 1 - alkylpyrrolidine N - oxides on energy metabolism of cancer cells .
The overall mutation rate of the MCR of the APC gene among 86 CRC cases was 12 . 8 per cent ( 11 of 86 ) .
The structural and functional development of the pulmonary system is dependent upon appropriate early vascularization of the embryonic lung .
This study shows that angiogenin expression is up - regulated in the cytoplasmic and nuclear compartments in in situ carcinoma and invasive carcinoma compared with normal breast tissue and that angiogenin expression in invasive carcinomas is significantly positively associated with high tumour grade ( p = 0 . 03 ) , positive oestrogen receptor ( ER ) status ( p = 0 . 01 ) , HIF - 1 alpha ( p = 0 . 001 ) and DEC 1 ( p = 0 . 001 ) , but not with patient age ( p = 0 . 8 ) , tumour size ( p = 0 . 25 ) , lymph node status ( p = 0 . 69 ) , epidermal growth factor receptor ( p = 0 . 56 ) or microvessel density ( p = 0 . 32 ) .
METHODS : Forty - one patients ( 41 eyes ) with a clinical diagnosis of exudative ARMD with PED underwent simultaneous fluorescein and indocyanine green angiography , also under high ( 10 degrees ) magnification .
Furthermore , E7 mutant proteins impaired in their ability to bind p600 were transformation defective .
Here , we investigate S727 phosphorylation of Stat3 and its subsequent effects in prostate cancer development , independent of Y705 phosphorylation , using mutated Stat3 in the human prostate cancer cell line LNCaP .
Platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule ( PECAM ) - 1 has been previously implicated in endothelial cell migration ; additionally , anti - PECAM - 1 antibodies have been shown to inhibit in vivo angiogenesis .
The latent membrane protein LMP1 of Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) is often present in EBV - associated malignancies including nasopharyngeal carcinoma and Hodgkin ' s lymphoma .
Metabolic alterations in a noncachectic animal tumor system .
Furthermore , in support of these findings , we found that sunitinib induced a reduction in the expression of the antiapoptotic molecule Bcl - 2 as well as dephosphorylation of the proapoptotic molecule BAD , which results in the activation of BAD in these cells .
Notch signaling regulates intestinal development , homeostasis and tumorigenesis , but its precise downstream mechanism remains largely unknown .
SWAP - 70 is a phosphatidylinositol trisphosphate ( PtdIns ( 3 , 4 , 5 ) P ( 3 ) ) binding protein , which acts in F - actin rearrangement .
Pretreatment IL levels were not associated with outcome .
The effect of taxol , cobalt chloride and a heparin - steroid combination was tested in the fat tissue assay and compared to the validated human placental vein angiogenesis model ( HPVAM ) .
The keratin 5 ( K5 ) promoter drives transgenic expression to the basal cell layer of stratified epithelia .
Activation of PKA ( cAMP - dependent protein kinase ) by androgen increased phosphorylation of CREB [ CRE ( cAMP - response element ) - binding protein ] , which in turn bound to CRE on the promoter of the HK2 gene resulting in transcriptional activation of the HK2 gene .
Whole body glucose use was 55 % lower in patients than in control subjects ( 17 + / - 3 mumol / kg / minute versus 38 + / - 3 mumol / kg / minute , P = 0 . 002 ) , consistent with insulin resistance in cancer .
VDAs can be divided into biologics , such as ligand - based , and small - molecule agents ; this second group includes small - molecule VDAs like flavonoids , such as 5 , 6 - dimethylxanthenone - 4 - acetic acid ( DMXAA ) , and microtubule - destabilizing agents .
Similar results have been obtained with tumor cell lines and experimental animal models .
Engrafted MSCs survived , proliferated and differentiated into myocardium - like cells .
The IGF - 1 gene was transfected into male SMCs and compared with SMCs transfected with a plasmid vector ( vector control ) and nontransfected SMCs ( cell control ) .
Islet endothelial activation and oxidative stress gene expression is reduced by IL - 1Ra treatment in the type 2 diabetic GK rat .
sDll4 similarly induced defective vascular response in tumor implants leading to reduced tumor growth .
The results revealed that the metastatic tumors in mouse lung were markedly decreased in a dose - dependent manner and acute lung injury induced by B16F10 melanoma metastasis was diminished by systemic rk - 2 treatment .
Netrin - 1 up - regulation in inflammatory bowel diseases is required for colorectal cancer progression .
In patients who transform to overt MDS or AML , hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is the only chance for cure .
Apoptosis is detected with the TUNEL method .
Adaptor protein Crk is required for ephrin - B1 - induced membrane ruffling and focal complex assembly of human aortic endothelial cells .
In addition , it significantly extends the passage number of MEF cells to more than 30 after retroviral infection , compared with less than 5 for uninfected MEF cells .
BACKGROUND : Angiogenesis plays an important role in maintaining adequate oxygen delivery , and nitric oxide ( NO ) is a potential regulator of angiogenesis .
They were treated with HBO in 56 + / - 10 consecutive HBO sessions .
Expression of COX - 2 mRNA and synthesis of PGE ( 2 ) were inhibited by BV .
In this study , we show that Tsg101 is highly expressed in a subset of invasive human breast cancers .
Here , we show that natural and synthetic progestins also induce thrombospondin - 1 ( TSP - 1 ) mRNA and protein in T47 - D and BT - 474 breast cancer cells .
The effect of perfluorocarbon - based artificial oxygen carriers on tissue - engineered trachea .
However , the role of IL - 17F in intestinal tumorigenesis has not been addressed .
These data confirm the importance of tissue architecture and polarity in malignant progression .
Finally , inhibition of Id - 1 expression results in G ( 2 ) / M accumulation of FGF - 2 - treated cells and delayed cell death .
Glucocorticoid receptor ( GR ) activation has recently been shown to inhibit apoptosis in breast epithelial cells .
To date , the potential oncogenic properties of Tsg101 have not been examined in vivo owing to the lack of appropriate model systems .
Heparin was surface immobilized via covalent conjugation .
It has long been noted , however , that hair follicle cycling is associated with prominent changes in skin perfusion , that the epithelial hair bulbs of anagen follicles display angiogenic properties , and that the follicular dermal papilla can produce angiogenic factors .
Such activity was abolished in mechanically stimulated mouse MRTF - A ( - / - ) cells or upon inhibition of CREB - binding protein ( CBP ) histone acetyltransferase ( HAT ) either pharmacologically or by siRNAs .
Met amplification and tumor progression in Cdkn2a - deficient melanocytes .
Thus , VEGF , Ang - 1 and - 2 may play complementary and coordinated roles in airway angiogenesis and microvascular remodeling , and these structural changes are potentially reversible by therapeutic intervention .
Formation of apoptotic bodies was preceded by lowering of intracellular polyamines , particularly putrescine , and both dose - and time - dependent inhibitory and activation effect by ACA on ornithine decarboxylase ( ODC ) and spermidine / spermine N ( 1 ) - acetyltransferase ( SSAT ) , respectively .
Interestingly , the expression of IL - 17A from CD4 T cells in the lamina propria remains unchanged in the absence of IL - 17F .
The metastatic potentials of several human prostate cancer xenograft models , LAPC - 4 , LAPC - 9 , PC3 and CWR22Rv - 1 were compared .
Radiosensitization by 2 - DG in monolayer cells was primarily due to an increase in mitotic death ( 23 % ) linked to cytogenetic damage ( micronuclei ) , whereas a profound induction of apoptosis ( 40 % ) accounted for the sensitization in spheroids .
The host and tumor sensitivities to insulin are critical for such treatments , which aim to improve patient nutrition .
Six weeks later , mice were randomly divided into four treatment groups : untreated controls ; 10 minute daily TEMF ; 200 cGy of IR every other day ( total 800 cGy ) ; IR plus daily TEMF .
Concentrations achieved in vivo in tumors lead to single - agent anti - tumor activity at non - toxic doses .
FVIIa markedly decreased the number of cells with apoptotic morphology and prevented the DNA degradation as measured by means of TdT - mediated dUTP nick end labeling ( TUNEL ) .
Furthermore , interaction of fibroblasts and high invasive melanoma cells with soluble recombinant DC - 9 resulted in enhanced expression of MMP - 1 and MMP - 2 .
Domain 5 of cleaved high molecular weight kininogen inhibits endothelial cell migration through Akt .
In down modulated growing cells , PDBu caused almost complete inhibition of EGF binding , whereas in down modulated stationary cells , minimal inhibition of EGF binding by PDBu was observed .
It is concluded that curcumin inhibits the adhesion and invasion of MCF - 7 cells through down - regulating the protein expression of uPA via of NF - kappaB activation .
RESULTS : The MMP / TIMP profile defined by hierarchical cluster analysis of the immunohistochemical score identifies a distinct group of colorectal cancers with poor prognosis ( log - rank test , 12 . 22 , P = 0 . 0005 ) .
Sixty - eight percent of tumors in this group were vimentin positive and 88 % of all vimentin - positive tumors fell into this category .
Since tumor cell - derived TSP - 1 has the potential to promote angiogenesis in the tumor microenvironment , it could be a potential target for breast cancer therapy .
The region of the LTR identified here as being important in trans activation has recently been shown to be a critical determinant of the leukemogenicity and latency of Moloney murine leukemia virus .
The same result was obtained when the model contained ER status and ER - tamoxifen interaction .
Mutations in colonic adenomas , and the frequent losses on 4q described in gastric cancer prompt speculation about the role of CDC4 / FBXW7 in gastric carcinogenesis .
Multi - step neoplastic transformation of normal human fibroblasts by Co - 60 gamma rays and Ha - ras oncogenes .
VEGF activates phospholipases ( PLCs ) - specifically PLCgamma1 - that are important for tubulogenesis , differentiation and DNA synthesis .
We have suggested that constitutive activation of this kinase is one mechanism by which oncogenes transform cells .
This work illustrates alternate means to regulate Src - family kinases , and suggests that Cbl may be able to suppress many signaling pathways that are activated in various proliferative syndromes including cancer .
Thus , our results indicate that under appropriate conditions rho genes function as oncogenes and may have a role in the regulation of proliferation in fibroblast cells .
Although the Bcl - 2 and Bax levels were significantly higher in spheroids , Bcl - 2 / Bax ratio was similar in monolayers and spheroids .
We have found that LPA downregulates tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases ( TIMPs ) .
BACKGROUND : Roundabouts are axon guidance molecules that have recently been identified to play a role in vascular guidance as well .
The different tumorigenic potential of SV40 in WAP - T and WAP - mutCK1delta / WAP - T tumors was also reflected by a significantly different expression of various genes known to be involved in tumor progression , specifically of those involved in wnt - signaling and DNA repair .
CSC - high C6 cell cultures also induced higher levels of endothelial cell proliferation and tubule organization in vitro compared with CSC - low cultures .
Higher platelet concentrations may expose beneficial effects of PRP .
Newly formed bone densities were also found to be higher in these 2 groups .
Key players in this process are the hypoxia - inducible factors ( HIF - 1alpha to 3alpha ) .
The B ( 1 ) R distribution pattern mirrored that of HER2 except that B ( 1 ) R was additionally observed in the adenomas .
The role of platelet - derived endothelial cell growth factor / thymidine phosphorylase in tumor behavior .
We found a decrease in corneal neovascularization in spironolactone - treated rats compared with the PBS - treated group , although the difference was not statistically significant .
Tumor angiogenesis modulates leukocyte - vessel wall interactions in vivo by reducing endothelial adhesion molecule expression .
Anti - Fas treatment resulted in decreased p53 protein levels , while bcl - 2 and bax protein levels remained unaffected .
The effects of this compound on the vascular development lend credibility to its potential as an anticancer agent .
Endosialin / TEM 1 is a cell membrane protein that is expressed in blood vessels during embryogenesis and tumorigenesis but not in normal mature vessels .
Thus , a distinct WNT / TCF signaling program through LEF1 and HOXB9 enhances the competence of lung adenocarcinoma cells to colonize the bones and the brain .
In control group , there was no vascular bundle implantation .
Here , we show that the downregulation of Brk1 results in abnormal actin stress fiber formation and vinculin distribution and loss of Arp2 / 3 and Wave proteins at the cellular protrusions .
Electrical stimulation ( ES ) has been recommended as a adjunctive therapy , however optimal treatment paradigms have not been established .
An image analysis system was also used to quantify the proportion of tumor nuclei with MDM2 staining ( ACIS index ) and staining intensity .
The primary results indicated ( i ) positive results of in situ hybridization are presence of granules or masses in the cytoplasm ; ( ii ) the less expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA , the higher metastatic rate of the human hepatocellular carcinoma ( P < 0 . 05 ) ; ( iii ) expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA dose not correlate with some other factors such as tumor size and the background of other liver diseases .
Knockdown of VEGFR - 2 attenuated the sunitinib - induced effects , including apoptosis and inhibition of signaling pathways such as the phosphorylation of Akt as well as mTOR , and Bcl - 2 , which confirmed that these effects could be mediated by VEGFR - 2 .
To study Hedgehog signaling in vivo a hind limb tumor model with the B16F0 cell line was used .
Many studies on carcinogenesis carried out early in the last century are united on the consensus that cancer is a genetic disease .
To address this question , we used the proteomic approach of tandem affinity purification to identify cellular proteins that are in complex with E7 , and identified the 600 - kDa protein , p600 , as a binding partner of E7 .
Nontumorigenic , immortalized keratinocytes cell line ( 3PC ) , papilloma ( MT1 / 2 ) , and squamous cell carcinoma ( Ca3 / 7 ) cell lines were initially used to study the cell growth inhibition by DMI .
However , the strong increase of angiogenesis in AOGEN - transgenic mice compared with mice with normal ANG II levels suggests additional stimulatory activity .
Moreover , renal carcinoma cell lines also released the soluble form of CD154 into the supernatant .
FGF2 - stimulated microvessel formation was inhibited by sequestration of FGF2 via addition of soluble FGF receptor ( FGFR ) chimera protein or anti - FGF2 antibodies .
The clinical significance of MTSS1 will also be discussed .
We compared a treatment schedule were cells were bolus incubated for 3h with doxorubicin followed by 24h in drug - free medium , with a continuous doxorubicin treatment schedule for 24h .
By using mass spectrometric analysis , we identified that PTTG up - regulated S100A4 and galectin - 1 secretion and down - regulated tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 2 secretion to the culture media .
30 and 50 micrograms / ml of U - 995 , when added to TNF alpha - induced angiogenesis caused discontinuous and disrupted blood vessels .
Androgen signaling through androgen receptor ( AR ) is critical for prostate tumorigenesis .
Regulation of the resident chromosomal copy of c - myc by c - Myb is involved in myeloid leukemogenesis .
Nineteen ( 79 % ) putative NK - cell lymphomas expressed perforin , and all 24 cases expressed granzyme B9 and TIA1 .
VEGF and COL - IV levels were found to be significantly higher for pattern A ( 110 mus pulse width ) compared to pattern B ( 5 mus pulse width ) at 14 days , implying that pattern A may be more effective at promoting angiogenesis .
Our data show that inactivating mutations in CK1delta impair SV40 - induced cellular transformation in vitro and mouse mammary carcinogenesis in vivo .
Following implantation within the striatum , the volume of the primary fibroblast grafts , stained immunohistochemically for fibronectin , does not differ significantly at 3 and 8 weeks .
TUNEL assay was used to assess apoptosis .
Organic peroxides , widely used in the chemical and pharmaceutical industries , can act as skin tumor promoters and cause epidermal hyperplasia .
The field is currently in ascendance due to two factors .
This in vitro morphological appearance was exactly reproduced in the in vivo tumors , which were formed when the mixture of A431 and F - 2 cells at the ratio of 10 : 1 were cotransplanted s . c . into the back of nude rats .
In intestinal metaplasia , dysplasia , and GC of the intestinal and atypical subtypes , C / EBPbeta was over - expressed ( p < 0 . 0001 , for the association with histological type ) .
VEGF165 also mediated the binding of a soluble NRP1 dimer to cells expressing KDR only , confirming the formation of such complexes .
Adjuvant chemotherapy is recommended after resection in selected high - risk patients with stage II disease and in all patients with stage III disease .
Also , a significant correlation existed between CTGF mRNA levels versus tumor grade , gender , and pathology .
Targeting SREBP could become a novel approach in fighting diseases involving abnormal ECs migration .
Continuous ( 24h ) treatment with 5 microM doxorubicin resulted in cell cycle arrest in G0 / G1 phase that was neither accompanied by phosphorylation and activation of p53 nor enhanced expression of p21 .
The study shows that clear cell tumors are able to up - regulate angiogenic growth factor receptors more efficiently than chromophil ( papillary ) , that clear cell tumors can use pathways independent of VHL to regulate angiogenesis , and that this combined regulation may account for their more aggressive phenotype , which suggests that targeting VEGFR1 ( flt - l ) may be particularly effective in these tumor types .
Cytotoxic concentrations of cisplatin , etoposide , doxorubicin or peplomycin ( tentatively termed as Group I compounds ) , but not methotrexate and 5 - FU ( tentatively termed as Group II compounds ) , enhanced the cytotoxic activity of NaF .
We now report that a nearby residue , Thr - 495 , also appears to be phosphorylated .
IL - 18 , originally identified as interferon - gamma inducing factor ( IGIF ) , is related to the IL - 1 family in terms of its structure as well as its processing , receptor , signal transduction pathway and pro - inflammatory properties .
Expression , regulation , and function of IGF - 1 , IGF - 1R , and IGF - 1 binding proteins in blood vessels .
Antioxidant N - acetyl - l - aspartate ( NAC ) decreased vessels number in tumors formed by cells with inactivated p53 and inhibited their growth .
Numerous products from fruits , vegetable and traditional medicinal plants have been described which can suppress TNF expression and TNF signaling but their clinical potential is yet uncertain .
Lysophosphatidic acid downregulates tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases , which are negatively involved in lysophosphatidic acid - induced cell invasion .
One such factor , vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , is considered to exert a potent angiogenic activity , as indicated by immunohistochemical and molecular evidence .
The induction of elevated p53 levels was determined not to be due to virus - receptor interactions or HCMV late events .
Histologic evaluation revealed that although tumors overexpressing TIMP - 3 had an increased number of CD31 ( + ) endothelial cells , these endothelial cells had not formed functional tubules , as evidenced by decreased vessel continuity and minimal pericyte recruitment .
Moreover , expression of a dominant negative AP - 2 protein , AP - 2delta ( deleted residues 31 - 117 ) , not only repressed the ErbB - 3 promoter activity but also suppressed endogenous ErbB - 3 transcription in the ErbB - 3 overexpressing cell line MRC - 5VA .
BAG - 1L also potentiated transactivation of known vitamin - D - responsive gene promoters , osteocalcin and 24 - hydroxylase , and enhanced VDR - dependent transcription and protein expression of the keratinocyte differentiation marker , involucrin .
The Hedgehog intercellular signaling pathway regulates cell proliferation and differentiation .
Nonetheless , anti - VEGF therapy has enhanced the arsenal of anticancer therapies and has provided new insights into the biology of malignancy .
Modulation of angiogenesis and progelatinase a by thrombin receptor mimetics and antagonists .
Surprisingly , despite the expression of KSHV latent genes in the vast majority of tumor cells , specifically targeting only the few vGPCR - expressing cells in established tumors resulted in tumor regression .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is a mitogen that acts exclusively on endothelial cells .
These effects translated into a 2 . 2 - to 229 . 0 - fold increase in the cytotoxic activity of ara - C against clonogenic leukemic cells after GM - CSF or IL - 3 pretreatment .
Under specific conditions , casein could be used as an exogenous substrate as well .
T140 analogs as CXCR4 antagonists identified as anti - metastatic agents in the treatment of breast cancer .
In juvenile brca2 mutants , oocytes failed to progress through meiosis , leading to female - to - male sex reversal .
We now report that six different genes of the cluster HOX 1 are sequentially induced by RA in a similar temporal pattern , beginning with genes at the 3 ' end of the cluster .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , one of the most potent angiogenic factors , stimulates endothelial cell proliferation and induces the angiogenesis .
The resulting clusters were correlated to patients with or without lymph node involvement .
Endothelial cell staining was heterogeneous and varied in different regions .
These results suggest that non - thrombogenic agonists or antagonists of the activated thrombin receptor can be used as modulators of angiogenesis .
Suppression and re - expression of transformed phenotype in hybrids of HA - ras - 1 - transformed rat - 1 cells and early - passage rat embryonic fibroblasts .
The virus - altered cells continued to proliferate in the presence of high levels of extracellular calcium but exhibited alterations in normal keratinocyte terminal differentiation that appear to be specific to the particular oncogene .
The leukemia cell lines K562 and HL - 60 had no detectable TGF - beta RII mRNA .
Shear stress - induced transcriptional suppression of Tie1 is mediated by a negative shear stress response element , localized in a region of 250 bp within the promoter .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is a naturally secreted endothelial cell - specific mitogen .
There was also a significant correlation between VEGF - C and both of its receptors flt - 4 ( P = 0 . 006 ) and KDR ( P = 0 . 03 ) but no association between VEGF - B and its receptor flt - 1 ( P = 0 . 23 ) .
Our aim was to compare the angiogenesis associated with subcutaneous adipose tissue ( SAT ) and visceral adipose tissue ( VAT ) from the same obese patients in an in vivo model .
Over - expression of either rho gene was sufficient to confer anchorage - and serum - independent growth .
PTTG - induced galectin - 1 transactivation and expression were mediated by c - Myc , and both inductions were suppressed by c - Myc RNAi cotranfection .
The present study demonstrates that Tie1 expression is rapidly down - regulated in endothelial cells exposed to shear stress , and more so to shear stress changes .
Chronic exposure to tobacco smoke , which contains over 60 tumor - initiating carcinogens , is the major risk factor for development of lung cancer , accounting for a large portion of cancer - related deaths worldwide .
[ 13C ] Lactate production from [ 13C ] glucose , with no detectable uptake of [ 13C ] alanine , indicated that energy production in H5 spheroids was primarily via glycolysis .
In addition suppression of WT1 expression by WT1 anti - sense oligonucleotide inhibits proliferation of leukemia cells , suggesting that WT1 is important for their proliferation .
This work provides a demonstration that a combination of bioinformatics and comparative proteomics can help in finding out potential biomarkers associated with HCC metastasis on the level of pathways .
Hypoxia - activated functional HIF - 1 protein binds to hypoxia - responsive elements ( HRE ) in the enhancers of several genes including VEGF , the major player in angiogenesis , and initiates their mRNA expression .
Therefore , to understand their role in tumor invasion , it is necessary to evaluate them collectively .
Targeting glucose consumption and autophagy in myeloma with the novel nucleoside analogue 8 - aminoadenosine .
This review article focuses on recent developments in the use of angiogenesis inhibitors for the treatment of breast , lung , and colorectal cancers .
Our aim is to verify the alterations in the HRK gene in primary central nervous system lymphomas ( PCNSLs ) .
METHODS : The expression of DCC and netrin - 1 in normal endometrial glands and in cancer cell lines was examined by RT - PCR and immunohistochemistry .
Furthermore , transfection of E - cadherin cDNA into invasive NM - f - ras - TD cells resulted in the upregulation of syndecan - 1 expression in association with decreased invasiveness .
VEGF - A ( 165 ) , B , C , Flt - 1 , and KDR were analyzed .
Median overall and progression - free survivals are 14 . 4 and 4 . 7 months , respectively .
Finally , anti - p53 monoclonal antibodies only slightly affected in vitro phosphorylation reactions , whereas a p53 molecule from a simian virus 40 - free , chemically transformed human cell line was not phosphorylated in vitro under any condition tested .
The effects of IGF - 1 are mediated principally through the IGF - 1R but are modulated by complex interactions with multiple IGF binding proteins that themselves are regulated by phosphorylation , proteolysis , polymerization , and cell or matrix association .
Cancer metastasis : negative regulation by an invasion - suppressor complex .
Mice with tumor xenograft and experimental metastasis model were used to evaluate effects on tumor growth and metastasis .
Such cases may be considered either examples of a single primary carcinoma with metastasis or as synchronous primary neoplasms .
Induction of TSP - 1 mRNA by TGF - beta was attenuated by c - Ski in vitro , and expression of TSP - 1 mRNA was decreased in tumors expressing c - Ski in vivo .
These observations suggest that stem / progenitor cells in the mammary gland may be especially susceptible to oncogenic transformation .
A lesion was considered subfoveal if it extended underneath the geometric center of the FAZ .
Here we provide an overview of the current understanding of the Warburg effect upon tumor cell growth and survival , and discussion on the potential metabolic targets for cancer therapy .
We determined whether growth state can influence the action of protein kinase C by measuring protein kinase C activity in growing and stationary cultures of normal and transformed cells .
We situate invasion within microecosystems comprising neoplastic cells as well as host cells .
In contrast , KATO III cells expressed membrane CXCR4 .
Recent studies have shown that 14 - 3 - 3zeta interacted with other key cellular proteins involved in the tumor development and progression .
We failed to find the statistical difference between IMVD and tumor T - stage in LSCC .
We could imagine that it also plays a role in adjuvant chemotherapy effectiveness since , perhaps not coincidentally , this is most beneficial for premenopausal node - positive patients .
These novel functions of p53 help to align metabolic processes with the proliferation and energy status , to maintain optimal mode of glucose metabolism and to boost the energy efficient mitochondrial respiration in response to ATP deficiency .
CONCLUSIONS : ITCs circulate even in early stages of disease .
Scanning electron microscopy of vascular casts was used to investigate three experimental models of neovascularization .
Elevated expression of the junB proto - oncogene is essential for v - fos induced transformation of Rat - 1 cells .
This study identifies genes expressed early in 12 - O - tetradecanoylphorbol - 13 - acetate ( TPA ) - induced skin carcinogenesis in genetically initiated Tg . AC v - Ha - ras transgenic mice .
To identify a suitable donor cell population for gene therapy applications to the central nervous system , primary fibroblasts isolated from skin biopsies and maintained in culture are employed as autologous cells for intracerebral grafting within the adult rat striatum .
These findings suggest that the anticarcinogenic effects of ACA might be partly due to perturbation of the polyamine metabolic pathway and triggering of caspase - 3 - like activity , which result in apoptosis .
In animal studies , 1B3 significantly enhanced the antitumor and the anti - angiogenic activities of DC101 , an antibody directed against mouse vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 , in a pancreatic ( BxPC - 3 ) and a non - small cell lung ( NCI - H460 ) tumor xenograft models .
TF is involved in cell migration , embryogenesis and angiogenesis .
Unusual in healthy individuals , their presence in elevated numbers often indicates substantial vascular endothelial perturbation .
RESULTS : Proteomic findings indicated that adenosine triphosphate synthase alpha chain was up - regulated , whereas annexin II , annexin V , beta ( 2 ) - tubulin , and profilin 1 were down - regulated .
Here we found that inactivation of the Notch effectors Hes1 , Hes3 and Hes5 , but not Hes1 alone , led to reduced cell proliferation , increased secretory cell formation and altered intestinal structures in adult mice .
Patients with tumors demonstrating concurrent methylation of more than half of their genes demonstrated significantly poorer survival and earlier recurrence .
Two of them were selected for high or low osteonectin expression and tested in vivo in spontaneous and artificial metastasis assays .
On the contrary , CD154 stimulated cell proliferation , motility and production of PAF , a phospholipid mediator of inflammation with angiogenic properties .
In addition , reverse transcription - polymerase chain reaction and prostaglandin E ( 2 ) ( PGE ( 2 ) ) immunoassay were performed to verify whether BV possesses an inhibitory effect on the expression of cyclooxygenase ( COX ) and PGE ( 2 ) synthesis .
Smad1 / 5 / 8 phosphorylation was measured by Western blot analysis .
This effect is mediated , at least in part , by a decrease in TTF - 1 activity , since transient or stable expression of RhoA QL results in a reduction in the activity of the wild - type Tg promoter as well as an artificial promoter the activation of which depends exclusively on TTF - 1 .
This is the largest study to date evaluating COX - 2 inhibitors as adjunctive therapy in haemophilia and suggests that these agents may be an important adjunctive therapy in the management of haemophilia .
The VEGF pathway is one of the most important and best - studied angiogenic pathways .
BACKGROUND : The fate of patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia of type II A ( MEN II A ) is determined by medullary thyroid carcinoma , which occurs in all cases .
Q - RT - PCR was a useful method to detect the mRNA levels of nm23 gene in buccal carcinoma .
Is it possible that CD47 may also negatively affect cerebral endothelial cells ?
In addition to giving a historical perspective on HTLV - 1 and other retrovirus research , this paper discusses the origin of HTLV - 1 ; the modes of transmission and global epidemiology of HTLV - 1 infection ; the genome of HTLV - 1 and the mechanism of HTLV - 1 - induced leukemogenesis ; the role of HTLV - 1 in other diseases , and recent breakthroughs in ATL therapy .
Immunohistochemical study with specific antisera was done .
Overall , paclitaxel exerts its anti - tumour effects on cervical cancer cells by inducing apoptosis through intrinsic pathway , and rapamycin targeted to mTOR can sensitise paclitaxel - resistant cervical cancer cells .
CONCLUSIONS / SIGNIFICANCE : These results suggested that intrinsic apoptotic pathway may involve in anti - tumor growth effects of HTPB in lung cancer cells .
Randomized , open label , prospective study on the effect of zoledronic acid on the prevention of bone metastases in patients with recurrent solid tumors that did not present with bone metastases at baseline .
This probably results in the slower rate of osteogenesis seen at the 1 mm / day distraction rate compared with the 0 . 5 mm / day distraction rate .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the relationship among angiogenesis , spontaneous apoptosis and clinicopathological parameters in laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma ( LSCC ) .
[ Radiologic - pathologic correlations in breast diseases ]
RESULTS : The percentage of patients being bone metastases free at 12 mo was 60 % in the zoledronic acid and 10 % in the control group ( p less than 0 . 0005 ) , while the percentages at 18 mo were 20 % and 5 % respectively ( p = 0 . 0002 ) .
Effects of 4 - alkylmorpholine N - oxides on ATP - producing processes in Ehrlich ascites and L1210 leukaemia cells .
Dll4 is one of the Notch ligands that regulates arterial specification and maturation events .
BMECs transfected with hTERT alone were functionally and phenotypically normal .
We found a ser122 - pro mutation in the NME2 gene of metastatic IV Cl 1 cells .
Targeting the PIM kinase family could provide a new avenue to overcome resistance against small - molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors .
To the best of our knowledge , this is the first report to show that UV - B can increase the aggressiveness of human cutaneous melanoma for growth and metastasis .
TP is not only expressed in tumor cells but also in tumor surrounding tissues , such as tumor infiltrating macrophages .
These data highlight the importance of a balanced proteolysis and suggest an additional role for PAI - 1 distinct from its role in proteolysis .
Tumor promotion is due to induction of inflammation that results in enhanced pneumocyte proliferation and is abrogated by IKKbeta ablation in myeloid cells or inactivation of JNK1 .
Although previous studies have concentrated on the effect of UV - B on the host immune response , the effect of UV - B on the tumor cells was not elucidated .
There is a highly significant correlation between the magnitude of changes in the number of cytochalasin B binding sites and the magnitude of changes in glucose uptake .
These angiogenic activities are neutralized by a specific antibody against CCL16 .
We show examples in which p53 gene induction by IFN - alpha / beta contributes to tumour suppression .
In both cases , regulation of syndecan - 1 occurred post - transcriptionally , since syndecan - 1 mRNA levels remained unchanged .
The cells were labeled with luciferase , a bioluminescence imaging reporter gene , to enable optical imaging .
The specific enhancement of tumor proliferation in vitro .
Apoptotic signaling by p75 was ligand - independent and only partly caspase - dependent .
TTF - 1 immunohistochemistry could focus the search for the primary tumor for patients presenting with brain metastasis as the initial manifestation .
Pathological animal models in the experimental evaluation of tumour microvasculature with magnetic resonance imaging .
One of the most common signatures of highly malignant tumors is their capacity to metabolize more glucose to lactic acid than their tissues of origin .
We hypothesized that IGF - 1 - transfected smooth muscle cells ( SMCs ) would enhance cell survival and improve engraftment after cell transplantation .
It is regulated by numerous angiogenic factors , one of the most important being vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
Effects of 3 - chloromethylthiochromone - 1 , 1 - dioxide on nucleic acid , protein , and aerobic and anaerobic metabolism of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells .
Bovine capillary endothelial cells are also stimulated to actively migrate when exposed to EGF in vitro .
HSP27 is implicated in protein - protein interactions such as folding , translocation , and prevention of inappropriate protein aggregation .
The deficiency in the p53 - mediated regulation of glycolysis and mitochondrial respiration greatly accounts for the deficient respiration of the predominance of aerobic glycolysis in cancer cells ( the Warburg effect ) , while the deficiency in the p53 - modulated antioxidant defense mechanisms contributes to mutagenesis and additionally boosts the carcinogenesis process .
IMPLICATIONS : Short - course cytotoxic chemotherapy after surgery has probably reached its zenith , and other strategies , perhaps antiangiogenic methods , are needed to successfully treat more patients .
The molecular mechanisms regulating the gene expression under hypoxic conditions could increase the therapeutic window of tumor - specific delivery systems .
No harmful side effects were attributed to TEMF .
The transformation of normal melanocytes , or melanocyte stem cells , to melanoma , is a complex process involving multiple mechanisms .
Inhibition of NF - kappaB significantly reduced transcript levels and autocrine production of BMP - 2 by rhTNF - alpha stimulated C4 - 2B cells and to a lesser extent by the parental LNCaP cells .
EC9706 and EC109 cells were incubated with varying concentrations of aspirin and nimesulide , and the effects on cell proliferation and apoptosis were monitored by 3 - ( 4 , 5 - dimethyl - thiazol - 2yl ) - 2 , 5 - diphenyltetrazolium bromide and flow cytometry .
The basal phosphorylation of protein kinase C substrate of relative molecular mass ( Mr ) 80 , 000 ( 80K ) is significantly increased in all the ras - transformed cell lines .
At later stages , branches of radial arteries penetrated the periphery forming an extensive mesh of capillaries on the concave surface .
The v - Src - transformed MEFs deficient in SWAP - 70 were unable to grow in soft agar while those expressing SWAP70 readily formed colonies , suggesting that SWAP - 70 is required for anchorage independent growth of v - Src transformed MEFs .
One limitation of these approaches , however , may be the failure to normalize myocardial perfusion , due to the concomitant presence or small of resistance vessel disease .
Many of these alterations parallel those observed in human patients suffering from cancer cachexia making canine lymphoma a potential model for further study of the pathogenesis and therapy of cancer cachexia .
Furthermore , reduction of Pbx1 levels through RNAi - mediated knockdown significantly inhibited Evi - 1 - induced transformation .
More recent data have demonstrated the existence of two human nm23 gene homologues , nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 , and have shown that deletion of nm23 - H1 alleles occurs in some colon carcinomas associated with poor prognosis .
p53 targets involved in cell - cycle arrest and apoptosis showed the same mode of regulation , indicating that , in vivo , both are activated simultaneously .
Likewise , in diabetics without proliferation , angiogenic activity was also blocked by antibodies to PEDF .
After 21 days , the serum concentration of nitrite , capillary density and expression of HIF1alpha were determined .
Using vitamin K in perioperation management did not reduce intraoperative blood loss .
The short - term response of Swiss 3T3 cells to an activator of protein kinase C also appeared to be independent of growth state , since the 50 % effective dose for PDBu inhibition of EGF binding to its receptor was approximately 7 nM for both growth conditions .
There was no correlation of survivin with bcl - 2 or bax expression , or with other prognostic parameters ( age , tumor size , histologic type , histologic grade , nodal status , and tumor stage ) ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
PURPOSE : Spironolactone has recently been shown to have suppressive effects on several immunoactive and proinflammatory cytokines .
However , its role in tumor - associated lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic metastasis remains unclear .
Syndecan - 1 is a cell surface proteoglycan that has been implicated in a number of cellular functions including cell - cell adhesion , cell - matrix anchorage and growth factor presentation for signalling receptors .
Finally , sorafenib induced autophagy in Huh7 xenograft tumors in nude mice and coadministration with chloroquine significantly suppressed tumor growth compared with sorafenib alone .
In conclusion , the present study clearly demonstrates the potential of vector - mediated antiangiogenic gene therapy as a component in cancer therapy .
Ethanol exposure resulted in reduced VEGF - induced cord formation on collagen and reduced capillary network structure on Matrigel in vitro .
However , the expression of nm23 - H1 gene product in the metastatic sites have not been studied in detail .
Pericytes occur in tumour blood vessels and are critical for the development of a functional vascular network .
Highly sensitive reverse - transcription polymerase chain reaction identifies an induction and overexpression of a type II - like tumor HK RNA in a range of cancer cell lines irrespective of tissue origin .
The Met proto - oncogene mesenchymal to epithelial cell conversion .
These studies support a role of both systems in adipogenesis and obesity ; the role of specific members of these families , however , remains to be determined .
The genetic basis of increased glycolytic activity observed in cancer cells is likely to be the result of complex interactions of multiple regulatory pathways .
Leukocyte rolling , i . e . , the step preceding adhesion , was not influenced by the presence of a tumor in nude mice , but was down - regulated in immune - competent C57Bl / 6 mice .
Diverse cell signaling events modulated by perlecan .
The marked induction of angiogenesis in glioblastomas suggests that it is a necessary part of malignant progression ; however , the precise molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of brain tumour growth and angiogenesis remain unresolved .
Intraperitoneal injections of 2G7 starting 1 d after intraperitoneal inoculation of tumor cells suppressed intraabdominal tumor and lung metastases , whereas the nonneutralizing anti - TGF - beta 12H5 IgG2a had no effect .
They also induced local angiogenesis in vivo in an animal model .
An increase in oligomycin - independent respiration was observed in HepG2 cells treated with 3 - BrPA only when incubated in glucose - supplemented medium , indicating that 3 - BrPA induces mitochondrial proton leakage as well as blocking the electron transport system .
In addition , the FAS - 670AG or GG genotype showed an increased incidence of node metastasis , but these findings were not statistically significant ( OR = 3 . 67 , 95 % CI = 0 . 96 - 14 . 00 , P = 0 . 059 ) .
RESULTS : Mice bearing subcutaneous tumor of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS pretreated Lewis lung carcinoma cells showed > 50 % reduction in primary tumor volume and reduced spontaneous pulmonary metastases .
PURPOSE : Head and neck squamous cell carcinomas have been reported to overexpress hypoxia - inducible factor ( HIF ) - 1alpha , a transcription factor that promotes expression of angiogenesis factors and resistance to programmed and therapy - induced cell death .
Expression of HER2 and bradykinin B1 receptors in precursor lesions of gallbladder carcinoma .
Roles of cell adhesion molecules in tumor angiogenesis induced by cotransplantation of cancer and endothelial cells to nude rats .
PTEN mRNA and protein were less frequently expressed in early and advanced gastric carcinomas than that in normal gastric mucosa ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
CONCLUSIONS : Irreversible PHT is strongly associated with impaired endothelial cell apoptosis and antiapoptotic signaling from perivascular inflammatory cells .
All of the 4 tumors that were CD40 - negative , were stage I tumors , without any evidence of regional or distant metastasis .
Overexpression confers an oncogenic potential upon the eph gene .
cDNA microarray expression analysis showed that the mouse homologue of Dss1 is induced by TPA .
However , we demonstrate a novel and more complex role for PSMA in angiogenesis , where it is a principal component of a regulatory loop that is tightly modulating laminin - specific integrin signaling and GTPase - dependent , p21 - activated kinase 1 ( PAK - 1 ) activity .
Our studies highlight the plasticity of aggressive human ovarian carcinoma cells and call into question the underlying significance of their ability to form VM in vitro induced by VEGF - a .
Addition of c - erbB2 to a multivariate Cox model that contained menopausal status , tumor size , nuclear grade , and treatment as covariates did not affect the significance of the model for DSF or OAS , whereas addition of the first - order interaction between c - erbB2 and tamoxifen was statistically significant both for DFS and OAS .
The median response duration was 8 . 2 months .
Statistically significant relationship between p53 expression in primary oral cancers and its expression in lymph node metastases ( P < 0 . 02 ) as well as increased expression of Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 in metastatic sites compared with primary tumors could indicate an association of these proteins with oral cancer progression and development of metastases .
One of the most fundamental is the ability to act as essential growth checkpoint that protects cells against cellular transformation .
Maternal endothelial dysfunction in preeclampsia is associated with increased soluble fms - like tyrosine kinase - 1 ( sFlt - 1 ) , a circulating antagonist of vascular endothelial growth factor and placental growth factor .
A previous study showed that the expression of COUP - TFII enhanced invasiveness of human lung carcinoma cells .
BPDE treatment caused induction of both AP - 1 and NF - kappaB activity as determined by luciferase reporter assay and only NF - kappaB induction in response to BPDE was significantly attenuated by TSC phenolic fraction whereas AP - 1 induction remains unaltered .
Treatment with the combination of 1B3 and DC101 in BxPC - 3 xenograft - bearing mice resulted in tumor regression in 58 % of mice compared to that in 18 % of mice treated with DC101 alone .
We investigated the hypothesis that naked DNA encoding for VEGF could be used in a strategy of arterial gene therapy to stimulate collateral artery development .
There are limited mouse models for the BMP signaling SMADs ( BR - SMADs ) 1 , 5 , and 8 because of embryonic lethality and suspected genetic redundancy .
Expression of hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 was localized to immune and granulosa cells of normal ovarian tissue .
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS : Adipose tissue samples from visceral ( VAT ) and subcutaneous ( SAT ) sites , obtained from 36 obese patients ( mean BMI 46 . 5 kg / m ( 2 ) ) during bariatric surgery , were layered on chick chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) .
Expression of Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 in primary tumors and lymph node metastases in oral squamous cell carcinoma .
Cox proportional hazards multivariate analysis ( MVA ) was used to determine the relation of MDM2 to the endpoints .
The number of lymph node metastases was significantly higher in HEC1A / VEGF - C cells than in HEC1A cells ( 3 . 2 vs 1 . 1 nodes / animal , respectively ) .
Several enzyme systems have been implicated in the metastatic process , but the metalloproteinases ( MPs ) appear to be the major group involved in most instances of neoplastic invasion .
A selective marker of normal and neoplastic mesothelial cells in serous effusions .
These proteins are mainly produced by specific integral parts of the viral genome , the oncogenes .
Urokinase receptor : a molecular organizer in cellular communication .
In spheroids , the glucose consumption ( 2 . 1 p mole / cell / h ) and lactate production ( 3 . 67 p mole / cell / h ) was nearly 2 - 3 fold higher than in monolayer cells ( 0 . 83 and 1 . 43 p mole / cell / h respectively ) .
It suggests that osteopontin plays an important role in human glioma progression .
CONCLUSIONS : Higher expression of the glucose transporter Glut - 1 by breast cancer cells compared with the healthy breast tissue is common .
They defined also the predominant origin of new vessels from venules and capillaries , and enabled the evolution of proliferating vessels into arterioles and venules to be documented .
This low glucose utilization is in contrast to the high [ 11C ] methionine uptake and the malignancy of these tumors .
Various cellular kinases , among them members of the CK1 family , play an important role in modulating the transforming activity of SV40 , including the transforming activity of T - Ag , the major transforming protein of SV40 , itself .
METHODS : Of the 456 eligible and analyzable patients ( parent cohort ) , adequate archival diagnostic tissue specimens from 108 patients were available for MDM2 analysis ( MDM2 cohort ) .
The proinflammatory activities link TNF - alpha with a wide variety of autoimmune diseases , including psoriasis , inflammatory bowel disease , rheumatoid arthritis , systemic sclerosis , systemic lupus erythematosus , multiple sclerosis , diabetes and ankylosing spondylitis .
Infiltration of dendritic cells correlated negatively with distant lymph node metastases , clinical stage , and peritoneal invasion .
Excessive vascular development and blood vessel remodeling appears in psoriasis , rheumatoid arthritis , diabetic retinopathy and solid tumors formation .
Given the likely role of the evolutionarily conserved hADA3 in multiple coactivator complexes , inactivation of its function may allow E6 to perturb numerous cellular pathways during HPV oncogenesis .
CCL16 activates an angiogenic program in vascular endothelial cells .
Moreover , we demonstrate that this inflammation - driven netrin - 1 up - regulation is causal for colorectal cancer development as interference with netrin - 1 autocrine loop in a mouse model for ulcerative colitis - associated colorectal cancer , while showing no effect on inflammation , inhibits colorectal cancer progression .
Topical and systemic estrogen treatments have shown an increased rate of healing by reducing inflammation , however the underlying mechanisms are little understood .
CD82 expression was significantly reduced in lymph node metastases .
These results suggest that alterations of the microsatellite regions in the TGF - beta RII gene are not involved in the progression of CML .
In examining the metabolic basis for selenoperoxidase - dependent resistance , we found that glucose - replete Se ( - ) cells reduce t - BuOOH to t - butanol far more slowly than Se ( + ) cells , the ratio of the first - order rate constants approximating that of the GPX activities ( L1210 cells ) or PHGPX activities ( K562 cells ) .
Ectopic localization of mitochondrial ATP synthase : a target for anti - angiogenesis intervention ?
In in vivo study , liposomal honokiol significantly inhibited the tumor - associated lymphangiogenesis and metastasis in Lewis lung carcinoma model .
VM - targeting strategies for ovarian cancer include anti - VEGF - a treatment , knocking down the EphA2 gene and using antibodies against human MMPs if the tumor is VM positive .
CD40 expression on human lung cancer correlates with metastatic spread .
The latter in its parent form or in its sugar form , deoxyribose ( dR ) may play a role in the induction of angiogenesis .
The kinase reactions showed preference for ATP and MgCl2 instead of GTP or MnCl2 .
We have previously shown that massive apoptosis occurs when wild - type p53 or E2F - 1 expression is induced in glioma .
CONCLUSIONS : Low sVAP - 1 levels are associated with poor prognosis in gastric cancer .
CONCLUSION : Endostatin gene therapy mediated by adenoviral vector efficiently induces expression of endostatin in vivo , and inhibits the growth and metastasis of tumor .
Increased serum levels of vascular endothelial growth factor in patients with renal cell carcinoma .
Recent reports suggest a participation of matrix metalloproteinases ( MMP ) in tumour pericyte recruitment that is consistent with the effect of certain MMPs in the development of microvasculature in embryonic development and in in vitro models of vascular remodelling .
The development of this technology has benefited from its application to both peripheral and coronary artery disease and results from both are reviewed here .
Angiogenesis , a multi - step process which involves endothelial cell proliferation , adhesion , migration , and basement membrane ( BM ) degradation , is essential for tumor metastasis .
Abnormal expression of beta - catenin was significantly correlated with poor differentiation and lymph node metastasis .
As for adverse events , only pigmentation of the skin and Grade 2 oral aphta were observed .
However , when compared with clinicopathological features , the expression of HSP27 correlated inversely with survival period .
Cooperative activation of Meis1 and Hoxa9 perturbs myeloid differentiation and eventually leads myeloid progenitors to leukemia , yet it remains to be clarified what kinds of subsequent molecular processes are required for development of overt leukemia .
The expression level of EphA2 had a statistically significant relationship with liver metastasis , lymphatic vessel invasion and clinical stage ( p = 0 . 0477 , 0 . 0316 and 0 . 0467 , respectively ) .
BAG - 1 regulates cellular growth , differentiation and survival through interactions with diverse proteins , including the vitamin D receptor ( VDR ) , a key regulator of keratinocyte growth and differentiation .
We concluded that RAF265 is highly efficacious in this xenograft model of human melanoma and decreases glucose metabolism as measured by DNA microarray analysis , cell culture assays , and small animal FDG PET scans as early as 1 day after treatment .
The purpose of this study was to determine the level of agreement between pediatric dentists and endodontists at a pulp therapy symposium conjointly sponsored by the American Association of Endodontists ( AAE ) and the American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry ( AAPD ) on November 2 - 3 , 2007 .
Energy supply of the mitotic cell cycle and the Na + / H + - antiport in ascites tumors .
These alterations bore similarities to abnormalities in differentiation observed in naturally occurring squamous epithelial malignancies .
The DSCR1s promoter was similarly induced in the endothelium of tumor xenografts .
The principal types of tumors were plasmacytomas secreting immunoglobulin and novel lymphomas that expressed markers such as Sca - 1 , CD4 , Thy - 1 , CD34 and CD45 ( B220 ) , consistent with an origin very early in B - lymphoid development .
Glucose decreased the rate of glutamine utilization by 34 % .
Furthermore , induction of MKP - 1 correlated with the inhibition of extracellular signal - regulated kinase ( ERK1 / 2 ) and c - Jun N - terminal kinase ( JNK ) activity , whereas p38 activity was minimally affected .
CONCLUSIONS : Our findings suggest that transcriptional repression of HRK is caused by promoter hypermethylation in PCNSL , and that the loss of HRK associated with the methylation profile of other genes is a potential step in the modulation of cellular death by apoptosis during PCNSL tumorigenesis .
Crucial genetic events underlying the initiation and progression of colorectal and pancreatic adenocarcinoma with a particular focus on the modulation of angiogenesis and antiangiogenic therapies are discussed .
This mutant enhanced the steady - level and transcriptional activity of ER .
The patterns of lymphatic vessels , the expression of VEGFs , and their correlation with neck metastases were assessed .
Systemic treatment with L - NAME inhibited growth of adenocarcinoma significantly but was accompanied by impaired renal function .
Reversal of the malignant phenotype of ovarian cancer A2780 cells through transfection with wild - type PTEN gene .
Proc .
FM - MSC and BM - MSC both expressed major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) class I but not MHC class II antigens and did not elicit allogeneic lymphocyte proliferation in mixed lymphocyte culture .
Herein , we report that these compounds effectively inhibited SDF - 1 - induced migration of human breast cancer cells ( MDA - MB - 231 ) , human leukemia T cells ( Sup - T1 ) and human umbilical vein endothelial cells at concentrations of 10 - 100 nM in vitro .
Toxicity , pharmacokinetic , and organ biodistribution studies were performed in nude mice .
Treatment of stage IV colorectal cancer is based on the type of prior therapy and patient - specific factors .
This study was designed to evaluate the potential implication of stromelysin - 3 ( ST3 ) , a newly identified member of the matrix - degrading metalloproteinase family , and of BM - 40 / SPARC , a glycoprotein associated with the extracellular matrix , during the progression of human colorectal cancers .
Five patients are still responding to therapy .
Changes in plasminogen activator inhibitor - 1 levels in non - small cell lung cancer .
These findings suggest a novel mechanism of retrovirus - induced activation of cellular gene expression , potentially contributing to leukemogenesis .
PTTG overexpression promotes lymph node metastasis in human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma .
Looking for mechanisms linking Brn - 3a to carcinogenesis , we discuss the role of this transcription factor in influencing Bcl - 2 / p53 antagonism and Bcl - 2 / VEGF induction of tumor angiogenesis , concluding this review with a proposal for the oncogenic nature of Brn - 3a .
Both polyester prostheses ( PF and PS ) have better tissue integration than the PP mesh , as evidenced by the higher amount of connective tissue and lower extent of fibrous encapsulation .
These results reveal upregulation of an endogenous angiogenesis inhibitor during multi step tumorigenesis and identify enhanced stromal TSP - 2 expression as a novel host anti - tumor defense mechanism .
Immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated that Fas associated with c - erbB2 and c - met in untreated cells .
Promotion of tumorigenesis by heterozygous disruption of the beclin 1 autophagy gene .
The contribution of ischemia to arteriogenesis is still unclear , but arteriogenesis clearly can occur in the absence of any significant ischemia .
The results demonstrated that levels of the c - jun mRNA and protein were unchanged in the revertants when compared to the transformed parental cells , and ectopic overexpression of c - jun failed to retransform the revertants .
Tumor size , serosal invasion , lymph node metastasis , peritoneal dissemination , and TNM classification was significantly correlated with sVAP - 1 level .
Neovascularization is an early and critical step in tumor development and progression .
Capillary cell migration and proliferation are proposed as sensitive quantifiable bioassays to explore the functional domains of the EGF molecule .
DAPT delivery from the hydrogels also did not lead to any adverse side effects , in contrast to systemic introduction of DAPT .
Sensitization to gimatecan - induced apoptosis by tumor necrosis factor - related apoptosis inducing ligand in prostate carcinoma cells .
Moreover , in vitro experiments demonstrated a direct effect of ethanol on the response to hypoxia in endothelial cells , as ethanol diminished nuclear hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha protein levels .
Among 18 BCR - ABL + leukemias presenting acquired trisomy of chromosome 21 , we report a high frequency ( 33 % ) of recurrent point mutations ( 4 in myeloid blast crisis [ BC ] CML and one in chronic phase CML ) within the DNA - binding region of RUNX1 .
A preponderance of viable fat , with evidence of neovascularization , was found in experimental flaps , compared with the necrotic fat that characterized the controls .
Among the pathways involved in pericyte recruitment during embryonic development , the contribution of platelet - derived growth factor B and sphingosine 1 - phosphate is confirmed in tumour angiogenesis .
Gene expression signatures denoting WNT / TCF activation are associated with relapse to multiple organs in primary lung adenocarcinoma .
These inhibitors are directed towards the receptors of VEGF or intracellular substrates for the receptors .
The stimulatory effect of mast cells on migration is specific for capillary endothelial cells .
RESULTS : SPARC expression was mainly in the stromal cells surrounding the colon cancer , and was significant difference in those tissues with the lymph node metastasis and differentiation degree of tumor .
Interleukin - 1 receptor antagonist inhibits ischaemic and excitotoxic neuronal damage in the rat .
In conclusion , allogeneic FM - MSC injection did not elicit a lymphocyte proliferative response and provided significant improvement in a rat model of hind limb ischemia , comparable to the response to BM - MSC .
Historically , PDT has been limited by a lack of suitable photosensitive dyes .
The EGFR - GEP100 - Arf6 - AMAP1 signaling pathway specific to breast cancer invasion and metastasis .
These models may have clinically relevant implications , particularly for the tailoring of therapeutic strategies targeting telomerase .
Angiogenesis defines the many steps involved in the growth and migration of endothelial cell - derived blood vessels .
Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) is strongly associated with the development of HCC in people chronically infected with the virus , but the mechanism of viral involvement remains unclear .
3 - BrPA ( 3 - bromopyruvate ) is an alkylating agent with anti - tumoral activity on hepatocellular carcinoma .
This usually involves screening of potential anti - angiogenic compounds on endothelial cells .
Platelets , therefore , may represent a potential target for therapeutic intervention in human ovarian cancer .
Serum VEGF protein levels were upregulated in stage III .
BACKGROUND & # 38 ; OBJECTIVE : It has been proved that Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) latent membrane protein 1 ( EBV - LMP1 ) can induce the expression of matrix metalloproteinase - 9 ( MMP - 9 ) .
Our results indicate that alpha - MSH exerts modulatory effects on the activation of NF - kappa B and AP - 1 , and that it can regulate chemokine secretion in human dermal fibroblasts .
The resultant tumors display lumen - like morphology , contain carcinoma - like focal areas with intercellular junctions resembling desmosomes , and coexpress epithelial ( cytokeratin ) and mesenchymal ( vimentin ) cytoskeletal markers .
We previously reported that the murine fibroblast cell line LTA is tumorigenic but non - metastatic , and is non - responsive to a transfected H - ras oncogene .
Positron emission tomography ( PET ) imaging has become a useful tool for assessing early biologic response to cancer therapy and may be particularly useful in the development of new cancer therapeutics .
We have used a quantitative assay in vitro to demonstrate that mast cells release a factor that significantly increases bovine capillary endothelial cell migration .
It is now known that specific types of human papillomaviruses ( HPV ) are the principal etiologic agents for both cervical cancer and its precursors .
To evaluate the role of VEGF - C in lymph node metastasis , we developed an animal model by using an endometrial cancer cell line , HEC1A .
In all patients , a major and consistent induction of p53 target genes was seen .
In a mouse model of endotoxemia , DSCR - 1s - deficient mice demonstrated increased sepsis mortality , whereas adenovirus - mediated DSCR - 1s overexpression protected against LPS - induced lethality .
RESULTS : DCE - MRI revealed greater enhancement in the peripheral area than in the central area in all the examined animal models .
PLD activity has been shown to be significantly elevated in many tumours and transformed cells , suggesting the possibility that PLD might be involved in tumorigenesis .
Nursing actions to support the humoral and cell - mediated immune system of the burned patient include providing nutritional support to maintain serum protein levels at optimal levels ; measures to decrease edema and promote angiogenesis in areas of partial - thickness injury ; meticulous treatment of the wound to prevent infection and promote healing ; monitoring of antibiotic use ; conservative use of invasive techniques , including intubation and vascular access devices ; maintenance of fluid and electrolyte balance and body temperature ; and energy conservation measures .
The pharmacokinetics of STX243 were examined at two different doses using adult female rats .
Together , our data define caspase - 3 as an important integrator of the apoptotic process in MCF - 7 breast cancer cells and reveal an essential function of caspase - 3 for procaspase - 9 processing .
FAS - 1377 G / A polymorphism and the risk of lymph node metastasis in cervical cancer .
On strips of all widths , ECs tended to migrate in the direction of strips .
Recently , genetic abnormalities in the elements of the Thyrotropin receptor ( TSH - R ) dependent cAMP regulatory cascade have been found to be involved both in benign and malignant thyroid tumours .
However , during each phase of the disease , low levels of TGF - beta RII were detected when compared with the hematopoietic cells of normal donors .
Autotaxin ( ATX ) , a potent tumor motogen , augments invasive and metastatic potential of ras - transformed cells .
A p53 mutant , p53R172P , which is deficient for apoptosis but retains a partial cell cycle arrest function , delays tumor onset in mice .
Activation of Notch proto - oncogenes has been associated with tumorigenesis in several human and other mammalian cancers .
Typically , proliferation and chemotaxis of endothelial cells is driven by growth factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) .
Inhibition of energy - producing pathways of HepG2 cells by 3 - bromopyruvate .
TGFbeta1 was initially identified in culture media from transformed cells as part of a factor that could produce a transformed phenotype in a nontransformed cell line .
Three patients ( 14 % ) regained 2 or more lines of visual acuity .
Knowledge of 14 - 3 - 3zeta and beta - catenin expression and clinical significance in the same tumor tissues is limited .
Neovascularization is associated with mechanical strain - dependent induction of angiogenic factors such as CCN1 , an immediate - early gene - encoded matricellular molecule critical for vascular development and repair .
Recent studies on factors involved in tumor vascular development have identified new therapeutic targets for inhibiting tumor neovascularization and thus tumor progression .
Simultaneous involvement of the endometrium and the ovary by carcinoma is a familiar problem in the routine practice of surgical pathology .
The prevailing model for Notch signaling suggests that ligand , presented on a neighboring cell , triggers proteolytic processing of Notch .
PURPOSE : To optimize the method of treating choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) associated with age - related macular degeneration ( AMD ) .
The role of hypoxia in 2 - butoxyethanol - induced hemangiosarcoma .
This was associated with a approximately 60 % reduction in tumor - derived blood vessels by quantitative morphometry of CD31 - stained tumor areas , and appearance of endothelial cell apoptosis by internucleosomal DNA fragmentation in vivo .
Very low - dose irradiation ( 2 x 2 Gy ) is a new , effective , and safe local treatment for follicular lymphoma .
Syndecan - 1 expression in mammary epithelial tumor cells is E - cadherin - dependent .
The aim of this study was to investigate the molecular pathway of the cytotoxic effect of paclitaxel in human cervical cancer cell lines .
In addition , selected novel classes of antivascular therapies , including those targeting tumor endothelial cells and other components of the tumor vasculature , are summarized .
Mechanical strain induced CBP - mediated acetylation of histones 3 and 4 at the SRF - binding site and within the CCN1 gene coding region .
A C - terminal segment consisting of T - antigen amino acids 251 to 708 ( T251 - 708 ) also sensitized cells to 5 - FU - induced apoptosis .
In conclusion , our study revealed that the overexpression of EphA2 protein in colorectal carcinoma tissue correlates closely with cancer progression and hematogenous and lymphogenous metastasis , suggesting that both EphA2 and E - cadherin may play an important role in tumor metastasis in colorectal cancer .
Cells which had been grown in medium containing 1 ng / ml TGF - beta developed colony - forming capacity in soft agar containing epidermal growth factor .
Together these results indicated that the revertant phenotype did not result from altered expression or mutations in the c - jun gene .
To explore the gene expression changes that occur downstream of ELK - 1 dephosphorylation , we used a combination of temporal gene expression data and promoter element analyses .
Treatment was discontinued at patient request or if there was no measurable response to therapy .
CONCLUSION : c - kit protein is an important diagnostic marker of gastrointestinal stromal tumor .
In the presence of both glucose and glutamine , the Crabtree effect decreased .
A preponderance of work has been focused on the molecular mechanisms underlying this effect , with the expectation that a mechanistic understanding may lead to novel therapeutic approaches .
These data also suggest that folate deficiency may inhibit colorectal carcinogenesis in chronic UC .
In this work , we show that LPA stimulates invasion of primary ovarian cancer cells , but not ovarian epithelial or borderline ovarian tumor cells , although these benign cells indeed respond to LPA in cell migration .
The results of LDH5 expression were correlated to clinico - pathological data as well as to patient ' s survival .
Immunotargeting using an anti - IGF - IR neutralizing antibody on human fetal lung explants demonstrated a significant blockade of IGF - IR signaling .
Our results suggest that formation of a ternary complex of VEGF165 , KDR , and NRP1 potentiates VEGF165 binding to KDR .
Polyphenols are natural antioxidants that are thought to contribute to prevention of cardiovascular disease and malignancy .
The nonspecific character of these pathways led us to hypothesize that circulating cancer cells use similar mechanisms , promoting secondary tumor formation at distal sites .
High levels of allele loss also were detected for chromosomes 8q ( 4 of 9 ; 44 % ) and 16p ( 5 of 6 ; 83 % ) and may indicate the presence of additional cellular genes whose functional loss is important in the development of HCCs .
RESULTS : EPOX induced endothelial cell apoptosis in association with proteasome - dependent Mcl - 1 degradation .
Arterial pressure and cardiac output were unchanged .
RESULTS : Adenoviral transduction of endothelial cells with pAd - Survivin inhibited growth factor deprivation - or ceramide - induced apoptosis , reduced caspase - 3 and - 7 generation , and stabilized three - dimensional capillary networks in vitro .
Age - related impaired wound healing leads to substantial morbidity and mortality along with a large financial burden to health services .
The effect of ATX secretion on in vitro cell motility was variable .
Hepatocyte growth factor ( HGF ) / c - Met signaling is thought to be a key pathway in both melanocyte development and melanoma metastasis .
Elevated levels of diacylglycerol and decreased phorbol ester sensitivity in ras - transformed fibroblasts .
Gene transfer of naked DNA encoding for three isoforms of vascular endothelial growth factor stimulates collateral development in vivo .
2 - Methoxyestradiol ( 2ME2 ) is a natural compound with HIF - 1alpha inhibitory activity that is currently being evaluated in phase 1 and 2 clinical trials for advanced solid tumors and multiple myeloma .
Intracellular glutathione levels were determined with the use of monochlorobimane , a glutathione - specific probe .
Via this binding , nicked beta2GPI attenuates the antiangiogenic functions of AS4 . 5 in the proliferation of arterial / venous endothelial cells , in the extracellular matrix invasion and the tube formation of venous endothelial cells , and in vivo angiogenesis .
We report one case of advanced gastric cancer with lung and lymph node metastases that completely responded to TS - 1 .
We investigated how inhibition of glucose metabolism could affect death receptor - mediated apoptosis in human tumor cells of diverse origin .
Recent studies have revealed important roles for miRNAs in regulating endothelial cell ( EC ) function , especially angiogenesis .
The alpha2beta1 integrin receptor plays a key role in angiogenesis .
METHODS : Patients diagnosed with chronic CSC , with clinical evidence of activity and treated with Photodynamic Therapy , are included in this report .
A reduction in alpha - catenin expression and p53 overexpression correlated to lymph node metastases , respectively .
Nevertheless , patients who achieved complete remission ( CR ) had a significantly lower median PE level compared to those who did not .
These results suggest that MnSO4 co - operates with overexpressed c - myc in inducing transformation , while 5 - azacytidine transformation is independent of c - myc overexpression and may involve alterations in the regulation of apoptosis .
Clinical data on bevacizumab is discussed in detail .
Our experiments demonstrate that insulin - like growth factor I indeed induces hexokinase gene expression in a concentration and time dependent manner in two cancer cell lines we studied .
Metastatic subpopulations isolated from independent lymph node - derived lung adenocarcinoma cell lines harbor a hyperactive WNT / TCF pathway .
A portion of bilateral radial bones of a rabbit were removed as free bone grafts , whose periostea were peeled off .
Therefore , our results indicate that emodin inhibits HER - 2 / neu tyrosine kinase activity and preferentially suppresses growth and induces differentiation of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing cancer cells .
We show that restoration of FOXO3a in FOXO3a - deficient LAC cells increases sensitivity to apoptosis caused by a DNA - damaging intermediate of NNK .
Western blots confirmed that LeTx treatment reduced the levels of phosphorylated extracellular signal - regulated kinase and p38 MAPK in vitro .
Daily i . v . injections of HAH - cortisol at doses causing no apparent toxicity retarded the growth of solid s . c .
Highly metastatic GSAS / N3 and N5 cells showed an enhanced NF - kappaB activity , thus contributing to increased migration , invasion , and a poor prognosis compared with the parent cells .
CSC - high cultures and tumors expressed increased levels of the proangiogenic factors vascular endothelial growth factor and stromal - derived factor 1 , and when signaling by either factor was blocked , all aspects of angiogenesis observed in CSC - high cultures and tumors , including microvessel density , perfusion , EPC mobilization / recruitment , and stimulation of endothelial cell activity , were reduced to levels comparable with those observed in CSC - low cultures / tumors .
Correspondingly , Fh1 - deficient benign murine renal cysts and an advanced human HLRCC - related renal cell carcinoma manifested a prominent and progressive increase in the expression of HIF - alpha target genes and in genes known to be relevant to tumorigenesis and metastasis .
Ba / F3 cells transformed to growth factor independence by various oncogenic PTKs ( TEL / JAK2 , TEL / TRKC , TEL / ABL , BCR / ABL , FLT3 - ITD , and H4 / PDGFbetaR ) show abundant expression of PIM - 1 and PIM - 2 .
MDM2 overexpression was manually classified as > 5 % nuclear staining .
Concordance in topo I staining between primary and lymph node metastases was observed in 33 of 42 cases ( P = . 029 ) .
Increased nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 messenger RNA expression and absence of mutations in colon carcinomas of low and high metastatic potential .
RESULTS : VEGF isoforms and its receptors ' mRNA were expressed in neuroblastoma and control tissues .
Their resistance to the anti - invasive action of TGFbeta was explained by the failure of TGFbeta to upregulate TIMPs and PAI - I , in contrast to the TGFbeta - induced upregulation noted in parental HTR8 cells .
Enhanced expression of PTEN by gene transfer is sufficient to reverse the malignant phenotype of ovarian cancer cells and transfection of ovarian cancer cells with wild - type PTEN gene might be another novel approach for therapeutic intervention in ovarian cancer .
With the enhancement of FPC concentration , the authors observed chromatin condensation in some phases companying with the characteristic apoptosis .
However , although beta ( 2 ) M and MHC class I are expressed on normal hematopoietic cells , which is a potential safety concern , the monoclonal antibodies were selective to tumor cells and did not damage normal cells in vitro or in human - like mouse models .
Patients with rectal cancer had greater topo I expression than those with colon tumors ( P = . 029 ) .
Antibodies to PA - 1 dose - dependently , and significantly , inhibited the invasive and migratory potential of human HT1080 fibrosarcoma cells , as did an antibody to uPA and the plasmin inhibitor aprotinin .
The fact that the apoptotic and antiproliferative functions of p53 can be dissociated in certain mutants also suggests another level of complexity in the relationships between p53 inactivation and neoplasia .
More than 50 % of the tumor cells coexpressed vimentin and keratin .
Thus , metabolically - altered islet endothelium might affect the beta - cell microenvironment and contribute to progressive type 2 diabetic beta - cell dysfunction in GK rats .
We also show that Akt pathway mediates IGF1 - R - induced Bcl - x ( L ) expression at transcriptional level .
It is concluded that the observed increase in the Na + / K + ratio in ascites tumor cells is connected with their enhanced ability to synthesize lactic acid .
In vitro migration and invasion were assessed in these cells , and the NF - kappaB activities and expression of NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules were also examined .
Conversion of these sites to alanine residues greatly reduced transforming activity , and although the mutant 55 - kDa protein was found to interact with p53 at normal levels , it was somewhat defective for suppression of p53 transactivation activity .
Intensity and patterns of localization in blood vessels was consistent in various tissues , but varied among different regions of the vascular bed .
BACKGROUND : Vascular adhesion protein - 1 ( VAP - 1 ) regulates leukocyte tissue infiltration .
For patients with adenocarcinomas in the lung , TTF - 1 staining is now routinely used to distinguish a primary lung cancer from a lung metastasis .
The tyrosine kinase inhibitor cediranib blocks ligand - induced vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 3 activity and lymphangiogenesis .
PURPOSE : Recent studies of cancer metastasis have focused on the role of premetastatic gene expression and circulating tumor cells .
In this study , we retrospectively analyzed the coagulation function in patients with pancreatic carcinoma .
The aim of this study is to compare behavior and tissue response between two new polyester prostheses and a commonly used polypropylene ( PP ) mesh .
Expression of ING4 is significantly reduced in gliomas as compared with normal human brain tissue , and the extent of reduction correlates with the progression from lower to higher grades of tumours .
Germline succinate dehydrogenase subunit A ( SDHA ) mutations have been reported in a few patients with a classical mitochondrial neurodegenerative disease .
Y705 phosphorylation is conventionally thought to be required for Stat3 signal - dependent activation and seems to play an essential role in some malignancies .
Up - regulation of lipogenesis by androgen is one of the most characteristic metabolic features of LNCaP prostate cancer cells .
RESULTS : Both wild - type and mutant PTEN can upregulate the expression of PTEN gene dramatically ; however , it is wild - type PTEN not phosphatase - inactive PTEN that can induce apoptosis and decrease cell migration , invasion and proliferation in ovarian cancer cells .
In addition , our in vivo studies indicated that the lenti - BI - 1 - infected cells formed obvious tumours , while no tumours were formed by the control cells after subcutaneously injected into nude mice .
Effect of platelet - rich plasma and fibrin glue on healing of critical - size calvarial bone defects .
Treatment of cultured human endothelial cells with DAPT , a gamma secretase inhibitor , increased cell migration and sprout formation in response to VEGF stimulation with a biphasic dependence on DAPT concentration .
We found coexpression of CD40 and CD154 in most of the renal carcinoma cell lines .
The Hedgehog pathway antagonist cyclopamine effectively reduced Shh - induced proliferation to control levels .
The rationale was that the heparin derivative , which binds to sulfated polyanion receptors on endothelial cells , should concentrate the steroid on the surface of vascular endothelial cells .
CONCLUSION : Immunohistochemically confirmed significance of the expression of VEGF in dependence of the CML stage could be of clinical importance in deciding on the timing therapy .
However , by treatment with Ha - ras oncogenes derived from a human lung carcinoma or Harvey murine sarcoma virus , the KMST - 6 cells acquired elevated clonability in soft agar and transplantability in nude mice .
Bilateral central lymphadenectomy was performed in all patients in addition to thyroidectomy .
Furthermore , mouse embryonic fibroblasts required the presence of B16F0 cells to express Patched in a co - culture assay system .
Rapid endothelial cell migration and inhibition of thrombosis are critical for the resolution of denudation injuries to the vessel wall .
Thrombospondin - 2 plays a protective role in multistep carcinogenesis : a novel host anti - tumor defense mechanism .
CONCLUSION : Together , our findings suggest that RASSF1C , unlike RASSF1A , is not a tumor suppressor , but instead may play a role in stimulating metastasis and survival in breast cancer cells .
In contrast , administration of the NAD ( P ) H oxidase inhibitor apocynin had no effect to the proliferative response to 20 - HETE .
The expression of VEGF and p53 protein in these SCC was examined immunohistochemically .
In nonischemic hind limb tissues , allogeneic FM - MSC and BM - MSC injection were associated with a comparatively small amount of T lymphocyte infiltration , compared with the injection of allogeneic splenic lymphocytes .
CONCLUSION : Myofibroblasts represent an important prognostic factor for invasive growth that is translated into a poor clinical prognosis for patients with invasive breast cancer .
Homeobox genes have a strikingly conserved 61 - amino acid sequence , encoding DNA - binding domain .
This review summarises the evidence from 8 pivotal trials of cilostazol involving over 2000 patients with intermittent claudication treated for up to 6 months .
The importance of NO in the vasculature is demonstrated by several experimental conditions , such as vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) - induced angiogenesis .
Somatostatin receptors were detected in peritumoral veins of various human cancer tissue specimens .
On day 18 , half of each group was treated with 5 x 10 ( 4 ) U gammaIFN , or saline intraperitoneally for 3 d .
Taken together , these results demonstrate that overexpression of TIMP - 3 can inhibit angiogenesis and associated tumor growth , and that the antiangiogenic effects of TIMP - 3 appear to be mediated through the inhibition of functional capillary morphogenesis .
The protein and water component of brain edema were indirectly quantitated .
The adenovirus type 5 55 - kDa E1B protein ( E1B - 55kDa ) cooperates with E1A gene products to induce cell transformation .
RESULTS : Of the 13 treated patients , 10 ( 77 % ) had a radiologically demonstrated partial response and 3 ( 23 % ) had stable disease .
The antiapoptotic effect of FVIIa was confirmed by the observation that FVIIa attenuated caspase 3 activation .
Inactivation of androgen - induced regulator ARD1 inhibits androgen receptor acetylation and prostate tumorigenesis .
Taken together , this study indicates that GSE is a well - tolerated and inexpensive natural VEGF inhibitor and could potentially be useful in cancer prevention or treatment .
However , high expression of WT1 correlates with poor prognosis in acute leukemia .
Metronomic 5 - fluorouracil , oxaliplatin and irinotecan in colorectal cancer .
Levels of pro - angiogenic vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and angiogenic inhibitor pigment epithelium - derived factor ( PEDF ) were determined .
We did not found any mutation in de novo BCR - ABL + ALLs or lymphoid BC CML .
Safety of verteporfin for treatment of subfoveal choroidal neovascular membranes associated with age - related macular degeneration .
The role of syndecans in disease and wound healing .
These observations have led to the idea that factors in the host downmodulate the E - cadherin complex and promote invasion most probably in a transient way .
METHODS : We quantified expression of MCT isoforms in human glioblastoma multiforme and glioma - derived cells lines by Western blot analysis .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , an endothelial cell - specific mitogen , can act in tumor - induced angiogenesis by binding to specific receptors on the surface of endothelial cells .
Wnt signaling , stem cells , and the cellular origin of breast cancer .
Postoperative progression of pulmonary metastasis in osteosarcoma .
There was a significant positive relationship between PAI - 1 levels and T - stage ( p = < 0 . 05 ) in the total group , and survival status ( p = < 0 . 05 ) in the SCC subgroup alone .
There was negative correction between KISS1 and MMP - 9 protein expression ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
To evaluate the biological significance of M - CSF induced VEGF production , we used an in vivo angiogenesis model to illustrate the ability of M - CSF to recruit mononuclear phagocytes , increase VEGF levels , and enhance angiogenesis .
On the other hand , VEGF levels were not increased by LPS stimulation .
There were significant differences in s - VEGF between the RCC patients and the controls ( 207 . 3 + / - 32 . 9 vs . 71 . 5 + / - 9 . 1 pg / ml , mean + / - SE ) ( P less than 0 . 005 ) , between the tumor - bearing renal veins and the contralateral ones ( P less than 0 . 01 ) , between the pre - and post - nephrectomy situations ( P less than 0 . 01 ) and among the various parameters of tumor status such as tumor extent ( P less than 0 . 001 ) and existence of metastasis ( P less than 0 . 001 ) .
Expression of 14 - 3 - 3 final sigma ( final sigma ) is induced in response to DNA damage , and causes cells to arrest in G ( 2 ) .
The increased expressions of these proteins in Galpha ( 12 ) QL cells were validated by immunoblot analysis .
Since other DNA tumor viruses , such as simian virus 40 and adenovirus , have previously been shown to interact with cellular protein p53 , we investigated whether infection of cells by HCMV would modulate cellular p53 levels .
Serum deprivation - induced apoptosis of BHK ( + TF ) cells was characterized by apoptotic blebs , nuclei with chromatin - condensed bodies , DNA degradation , and activation of caspase 3 .
Erbb2 suppresses DNA damage - induced checkpoint activation and UV - induced mouse skin tumorigenesis .
Antibodies against beta ( 2 ) M or MHC class I induce tumor cell apoptosis by 1 ) recruiting MHC class I molecules to lipid rafts and activating LYN kinase and the signal - transducing enzyme phospholipase C - gamma2 - dependent c - Jun N - terminal kinase signaling pathway and 2 ) expelling interleukin 6 and insulin - like growth factor 1 receptors out of lipid rafts and inhibiting the growth and survival factor - induced activation of the phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase / Akt and extracellular signal - related kinase pathways .
This remodeling process seems to be mainly flow - mediated .
Pancreatic endocrine tumors : expression profiling evidences a role for AKT - mTOR pathway .
In addition , comparison of both groups revealed a significantly higher increase in TGF - beta1 , IGF - I , IGFBP - 3 , and hGH in the lengthening group during the distraction period , indicating key regulatory functions in mechanotransduction .
The 5 - yr survival rate in patients with the coexpression was poorer than in the other patients .
These results indicate that ING4 has an important role in brain tumour pathogenesis .
The selective antimetastatic agents p - ( 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 1 - triazeno ) benzoic acid potassium salt ( DM - COOK ) , 5 - ( 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 1 - triazeno ) imidazole - 4 - carboxamide ( DTIC ) and ( + / - ) 1 , 2 - di ( 3 , 5 - dioxopiperazin - 1 - yl ) propane ( ICRF - 159 ) have been shown to markedly depress the formation of spontaneous hematogenous metastases in mice bearing s . c .
VEGF protein was higher in alinidine - treated rats than in controls after 2 weeks and increased further after 3 weeks of treatment .
In these transformants , mitogen depletion elicited an increase in the Rb level comparable to that in normal C2 cells ; wt SVLT , however , promoted the phosphorylation of a large part of the induced Rb .
In addition , the microtubule - destabilizing agents cause prominent changes in endothelial cell morphology , an action associated with rapid vascular collapse in vivo .
Coffee is a leading source of methylxanthines , such as caffeine .
Normal cells contain suppressor gene ( s ) which safeguard these cells against transformation by the product of the transforming Ha - ras - 1 oncogene .
Fas - mediated cell death was examined in MCF - 10AT preneoplastic human breast epithelial cells .
Hyperbaric oxygenation ( HBO ) may be a useful adjuvant to wound care .
There is more and more information on the role of ARF in the regulation of a cell cycle , apoptosis , and autophagy .
In conclusion , the decrease in c - Myc expression enhanced the VLB sensitivity , triggering earlier apoptosis through induction of the intrinsic pathway .
Akt knockdown and an mTOR inhibitor revealed the importance of the Akt / mTOR pathway in the postirradiation accumulation of HIF - 1alpha .
However , other experimental data indicate that NF - kappaB can play a tumor suppressor role in certain settings and that it can be important in promoting an apoptotic signal downstream of certain cancer therapy regimens .
These data provide further evidence of the existing relationship between pro - inflammatory molecules and ovarian cancer progression .
In colonic carcinoma specimens , the peritumoral vessels expressed a high density of somatostatin receptors , whereas the neoplastic tissue itself was receptor - negative in many cases .
The members of an Epstein - Barr virus microRNA cluster cooperate to transform B lymphocytes .
However , the role of IL - 8 in non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma ( NHL ) has not been fully determined .
This perspective places the report by Villani et al . that appears in this issue of the journal ( beginning on page 1222 ) in the context of recent work showing an intersection between two important developmental pathways implicated in oncogenesis : the hedgehog and insulin - like growth factor ( IGF ) pathways .
Importantly , PTHrP - specific neutralizing antibodies slowed the progression and metastasis of human breast cancer xenografts .
After staining samples for alpha - SMA , their expression was extracted and quantified as a relative percentage by computer - assisted image analysis .
Tie1 is an orphan tyrosine kinase receptor expressed almost exclusively in endothelial cells and is required for normal vascular development and maintenance .
Moreover , the lymph nodes close to the salivary glands were enlarged , and histology showed that they had activated follicles .
2 - DG did not induce a significant cell cycle delay in monolayers , while a transient G ( 2 ) delay was apparent in spheroids .
IL - 18 is also functionally related to IL - 12 , as it induces the production of Th1 cytokines and participates in cell - mediated immune cytotoxicity .
We have detected transforming activity by a tumorigenicity assay using NIH3T3 cells transfected with DNA from a chronic myeloproliferative disorder patient .
Hemostasis and mechanism of action of selective antimetastatic drugs in mice bearing Lewis lung carcinoma .
Further , we implemented a noninvasive molecular imaging technique to facilitate the assessment of the metastatic process .
Trib1 and Evi1 cooperate with Hoxa and Meis1 in myeloid leukemogenesis .
Vimentin was expressed preferentially in tumor cells of high - grade ductal breast carcinomas ( 15 of 28 histologic grade 3 vs . 0 of 40 grades 1 and 2 ) .
The 5 - year survival rate in cases with higher KISS1 protein expression was significantly higher than in those with low expression ( 20 . 9 vs . 2 . 4 % , p < 0 . 01 ) .
The aim of this study was to ascertain the potential usefulness of the antiangiogenic compound linomide for treatment of von Hippel - Lindau ( VHL ) - related tumors .
Angiogenesis was studied with factor 8 - related antigen ( F8 - RA ) which identifies endothelial cells .
Mutation of p53 may play an important role in the high proliferative activity of tumors in the RSCM group and H . pylori infection may be closely related to carcinogenesis in patients with RSC .
Here , we evaluated the usefulness of measuring serum and urine IL - 8 levels in patients with NHL .
The neoplastic transformation of cultured rat liver epithelial cells by various means has consistently been associated with the development of resistance to the mito - inhibitory effect of transforming growth factor beta ( TGF - beta ) , suggesting that such phenotype plays a mechanistic role during the transformation of these cells .
Epithelial keratitis , disciform edema , and necrotizing keratitis with neovascularization of the cornea developed in control animals .
Expression of both receptors was studied in biopsy samples from 92 patients ( 6 males and 86 females ; age ranging from 28 to 86 years , mean 56 years ) .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : An Affymetrix expression microarray was used to compare gene expression profiles between six pairs of TFs and normal fibroblasts from esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( ESCC ) .
Furthermore , retention of CDK4 in these TA - like pituitary cells synergizes with loss of p27 ( Kip1 ) to induce pituitary adenocarcinomas .
Activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 through a phosphomimetic serine 727 promotes prostate tumorigenesis independent of tyrosine 705 phosphorylation .
Actinomycin - D , but not puromycin , also blocks progestin - dependent induction of TSP - 1 .
Interestingly , both constitutively active and kinase - inactive Hck interact with and are targeted for degradation by Cbl .
Here we review and comment on these findings and on their implications for cancer biology .
Here we characterized the effects of mutant CK1delta variants with impaired kinase activity on SV40 - induced cell transformation in vitro , and on SV40 - induced mammary carcinogenesis in vivo in a transgenic / bi - transgenic mouse model .
PTHrP is also associated with the progression of skeletal metastases , and its dysregulated expression in advanced cancers causes malignancy - associated hypercalcemia .
Lesion composition also appears to influence visual outcome with verteporfin use .
Similar translocations are found in mouse plasmacytomas and both diseases involve interchanges between one of the immunoglobulin loci and DNA in the vicinity of the myc gene .
Furthermore , ubiquitination of cellular proteins was elevated in VHL - deficient cells , particularly after glucose deprivation , supporting a role for the VHL gene in ubiquitin - mediated proteolysis .
Hyperfibrinogenemia is associated with lymphatic as well as hematogenous metastasis and worse clinical outcome in T2 gastric cancer .
In the developing retinal vasculature , numerous , long filamentous filopodia , emanating from endothelial cells at the tips of angiogenic sprouts , were observed in wild - type animals , but to a lesser extent in the PECAM - 1 - null mice .
SPARC maybe involved in the regulation of anti - angiogenesis by which it may serve as a novel target for colon cancer treatment as well as a novel distinctive marker .
Invasion of the uterus by first trimester human placental extravillous trophoblast ( EVT ) cells depends on mechanisms shared by malignant cells .
A significantly reduced expression of SEMA3B ( 83 kDa ) , SEMA3F ( 90 kDa ) , and plexin - A3 was observed in ovarian cancer cell lines when compared with normal human ovarian surface epithelial cells .
The single non - epithelial line induced foci and was found to contain an activated c - Ki - ras gene with a G - - - - A transition in codon 12 .
SDF - 1alpha induced rapid phosphorylation of Erk1 / 2 MAPK but did not promote phosphorylation of Stat3 or Akt .
The archival surgical pathology files of The Johns Hopkins Hospital were searched for cases of brain metastases biopsied between 1990 and 2000 .
OBJECTIVE : To study the activation of sterol regulatory element binding protein ( SREBP ) and its critical role in endothelial cell migration .
Mutations affecting nuclear transport were far more critical for the ability to interfere with myogenic differentiation than were those affecting the transforming potential ; cytoplasmic SVLT expression was fully compatible with the terminal differentiation of C2 cells , despite enabling them to grow in semisolid medium , thus showing that the myogenesis - inhibiting property can be dissociated from transforming competence .
The ras - transformed , ATX - secreting subclones had enhanced motility to ATX as chemoattractant , but there was little difference in the motility responses of NIH3T3 cells transfected with atx , an inactive mutant gene , or empty vector .
Hamsters were treated with either radiation , DMBA , radiation + DMBA , or no treatment .
A novel integrin alpha5beta1 antagonistic peptide , A5 - 1 , screened by Protein Chip system as a potent angiogenesis inhibitor .
The baseline visual acuity was similar in the various study groups .
Homeostatic functions of the p53 tumor suppressor : regulation of energy metabolism and antioxidant defense .
However , the inhibition was much less effective for those cells expressing basal levels of p185neu under the same conditions .
Tumour angiogenesis is an important factor for tumour growth and metastasis .
RESULTS : The cRGD - HL significantly inhibited adhesion and migration of endothelial cells to vitronectin , and tubular structures of endothelial cells .
High - mobility group A2 protein modulates hTERT transcription to promote tumorigenesis .
Surprisingly , analysis of K5CDK4 and K5CDK2 transgenic mouse embryos showed CDK4 and CDK2 expression not only in the expected tissues , but also in the adenohypophysis .
The expression of Cbl at the plasma membrane targets both Hck and itself for ubiquitination and degradation , requiring an intact RING finger .
We conclude that the transforming properties of the activated Ha - ras gene in Rat - 1 cells can be suppressed at the post - translational level by the presence of the genome from diploid embryonic rat fibroblasts but additional controls of expression of the transforming gene are likely to exist .
These studies suggest that Hedgehog signaling regulates melanoma related vascular formation and function .
These results suggest that there is cell type specificity for oncogene activation during in vitro rat bladder transformation initiated by a single carcinogen and that ras gene activation is not a necessary step in urothelial transformation in vitro .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : To evaluate the antiangiogenic activity of EPOX , we did cell viability , cell cycle , tube formation assay in vitro , and Matrigel plug assay in vivo .
In addition , Brk1 downregulation results in defective directional migration and invasive growth in renal cell carcinoma cells as well as in other tumor cell types .
Many of these measures appear suitable for use in cancer prevention .
Synthetic vascular prostheses are foreign bodies , so that blood coagulation can occur on their luminal surfaces , causing graft occlusion very frequently in prostheses of small diameter .
Coexpression of vascular endothelial growth factor and p53 protein in squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus .
To sum up , our data suggest that the inhibition of metabolic pathways offers a novel and powerful therapeutic approach , which simultaneously inhibits tumor cell proliferation and tumor - induced angiogenesis .
CONCLUSION : Immunostaining with D2 - 40 significantly increased the frequency of detection of lymphatic invasion compared to conventional H . E . - staining in early breast cancer .
These results suggest that T140 analogs have potential use for cancer therapy , and that small molecular CXCR4 antagonists could potentially replace neutralizing antibodies as anti - metastatic agents for breast cancer .
In comparison , by day 24 , the majority of groups also treated with prednisolone displayed significantly less corneal clouding and neovascularization .
Chronic inflammation is a common underlying condition for human tumor development , accounting for approximately 20 % of human cancers .
By contrast , ovarian tumors displayed significantly higher levels of hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 where expression was observed in tumor and stromal cells .
OBJECTIVE : Dependence on glycolysis is a hallmark of malignant tumors .
CONCLUSION : Vascular bundle implantation improved angiogenesis in non - vascularized autogenous bone graft in this study .
Elevated serum soluble VAP - 1 ( sVAP - 1 ) levels occur in certain diseases having an inflammatory component .
Accumulating evidences indicate that receptor activator of NF - kB ligand ( RANKL ) is the ultimate extracellular mediator that stimulates osteoclast differentiation into mature osteoclasts .
RESULTS : Using the D2 - 40 antibody for immunostaining , our results demonstrate a significant higher detection ( P < 0 . 001 ) of LVI as compared with routine H . E . - staining in early breast cancer .
alpha - MSH also induces activation of NF - kappa B but does not modulate DNA binding on costimulation with IL - 1 beta .
This study was aimed to investigate whether there is selective expression of these cytolytic markers in the putative NK - cell lymphomas and whether there is correlation with zonal tumor cell death in these tumors .
Chemokine receptor CXCR4 expression , function , and clinical implications in gastric cancer .
CONCLUSION : These results suggest that mutant p53 expression is associated with angiogenesis and distant metastasis in esophageal SCC , and that the coexpression of p53 and VEGF may play an important role in angiogenesis , and have important clinical significance .
However , in N - ras - transformed cell clones , RA - induced expression of these homeobox genes is delayed .
In seven diabetic patients with proliferative retinopathy , the most profound finding was a significant decrease of the PEDF level ( mean value : 237 ng / ml ) , whereas VEGF levels were comparable to diabetic patients without proliferation ( mean value : 3153 ; p = 0 . 003 ) .
Curcumin ( 1 , 7 - bis ( 4 - hydroxy - 3 - methoxyphenyl ) - 1 , 6 - heptadiene - 3 , 5 - dione ) , is extracted from the plant Curcuma longa .
BACKGROUND & # 38 ; OBJECTIVE : Previous study shows that both vascular endothelial growth - C ( VEGF - C ) and tumor - associated macrophages ( TAMs ) are related to lymphatic metastasis .
Efficient inhibition of ovarian cancer growth and prolonged survival by transfection with a novel pro - apoptotic gene , hPNAS - 4 , in a mouse model .
In contrast , tube formation was significantly reduced by SMI496 , a beta1 I - like domain inhibitor and by function - blocking anti - alpha2beta1 but not - alpha1beta1 antibodies .
Additional mechanistic studies further suggested that the ability of circulating cancer cells to extravasate to surrounding lung tissues was linked to the activation of the vascular endothelium via one or more Galpha ( i ) - coupled receptors .
Examination of checkpoint pathway activation upstream of Cdc25a revealed Erbb2 activation did not alter Ataxia Telangiectasia and Rad3 - related / Ataxia Telangiectasia Mutated activity but increased inhibitory phosphorylation of Chk1 - Ser ( 280 ) .
Direct intramuscular or intraperitoneal injection of DAPT did not result in the same level of improvement , suggesting that appropriate presentation of DAPT ( gel delivery ) is important for its activity .
Arteriogenesis : the development and growth of collateral arteries .
In summary , these results suggest that ADAM - 9 expression plays an important role in mediating cell - cell contacts between fibroblasts and melanoma cells and that these interactions contribute to proteolytic activities required during invasion of melanoma cells .
Our in vivo metastasis mouse model is useful for studying the efficacy of therapeutic regimes of ovarian cancer .
Median change in visual acuity both 6 and 12 months after the initial PDT was 0 lines ( n = 18 at 6 months , range - 14 to + 8 lines ; n = 17 at 12 months , range - 18 to + 7 lines ) .
These data suggest that inhibition of B16F10 melanoma metastasis by rk - 2 was caused by inhibition of neovascularization and reduction of matrix metalloproteinase expression .
Systematic proteomic studying of the mechanism of hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) metastasis remains challenging .
Specifically , CLA was found to decrease the ability of mammary stromal cells to form complex anastomosing microcapillary networks in vitro on Engelbreth - Holm - Swarm - derived reconstituted basement membrane .
Assays used to screen for BRAF mutations in the clinic should be robust enough to detect the p . Val600Lys mutation , as this may have therapeutic implications .
Furthermore , this may explain why cancer in younger patients is more often ' aggressive ' .
Hence , GM - CSF and IL - 3 enhance the intracellular metabolism of ara - C and its incorporation into the DNA of leukemic cells leading to a higher antileukemic activity of ara - C on clonogenic leukemic cells ( CFU - L ) .
Male double Smad1 Smad5 conditional knockout mice are fertile but demonstrate metastatic testicular tumor development .
Careful selection of patients may be necessary before designing therapeutic strategies using either p53 or E2F - 1 as a therapeutic tools for glioma patients .
This negative regulation is mediated by the cytoskeleton as the disruption of interactions between the PSMA cytoplasmic tail and the anchor protein filamin A decreases PSMA activity , integrin function , and PAK activation .
Recently , it was repeatedly demonstrated that statins , competitive inhibitors of 3 - hydroxy - 3 - methyl glutaryl coenzyme A ( HMG - CoA ) reductase , have antineoplastic effects .
The effect on aerobic glucose consumption , lactic acid formation , content of total ( T - SH ) and non - protein thiol groups ( NP - SH ) , endogenous respiration and the level of ATP in tumor cells incubated in vitro was investigated .
The long latency of prostate cancer development provides an opportunity to intervene with agents of known mechanisms at various stages of disease progression .
Osteoclast - like cells and tartarate resistant acid phosphatase ( TRAP ) activities were then quantitated .
Inhibitors of Hedgehog signaling have been the subject of intense research .
However , the mechanism ( s ) by which ciprofloxacin elicits its biological effects on bladder cancer cells is not well documented .
Growth through the foveal center still can occur , however , and this can be associated with substantial visual loss .
DESIGN : Paraffin - embedded sections of 37 breast carcinomas were immunostained for survivin , bcl - 2 , bcl - x , and bax .
RESULTS : LOH of D10S541 , D10S583 and D10S1687 was found in 37 . 5 % ( 21 / 56 ) of advanced gastric cancers .
These results indicate that VEGF - C plays a critical role in lymph node metastasis , in addition to serving as a platform to test the efficacy of various therapeutic modalities against lymph node metastasis .
However , little is known about the function of AQPs in human breast cancer .
The last 7 years have seen over seven times as many publications indexed by Medline dealing with pomegranate and Punica granatum than in all the years preceding them .
The physiological significance of these observations are discussed .
We show that HIF - 1alpha and VEGF are increased through A3 adenosine receptor stimulation , whereas the effects on IL - 8 are mediated via the A2B subtype .
The authors evaluated the association between MDM2 expression and local failure , distant metastasis ( DM ) , cause - specific mortality , and overall mortality in men treated in Radiation Therapy Oncology Group 8610 with radiotherapy , with or without androgen deprivation .
In addition , ethanol exposure decreased expression of endothelial VEGF receptor - 2 , as well as VEGF receptor - 2 phosphorylation in vitro .
Vascular grade was not related to histology , grade , proliferation index ( Ki67 ) , or EGFR or p53 expression .
Presence of blood vessels was confirmed with histology and electron microscopy .
We show that ING4 physically interacts with p65 ( RelA ) subunit of nuclear factor NF - kappaB , and that ING4 regulates brain tumour angiogenesis through transcriptional repression of NF - kappaB - responsive genes .
Previously , we reported that topical exposure to Cum - OOH caused formation of free radicals and oxidative stress in the skin of vitamin E - deficient mice .
PURPOSE : To report on bevacizumab treatment for radiation retinopathy affecting the macula .
Selenoperoxidase - dependent glutathione cycle activity in peroxide - challenged leukemia cells .
However , as yet , there is no genetic evidence for a role of autophagy genes in tumor suppression .
Further prospective studies are needed to prove the clinical impact of D2 - 40 .
Angiogenesis is the biologic process of forming new blood vessels .
In breast cancer , there are conflicting studies questioning the role of angiogenin .
FOXO3a is a transcription factor that elicits a protective response to diverse cellular stresses .
However , little in vivo experimental data are available about the effects of NF - kappaB inhibition on OSCC metastasis .
Malignant cells often display defects in autophagy , an evolutionarily conserved pathway for degrading long - lived proteins and cytoplasmic organelles .
However , it is reasonable to expect that mechanistically complementary combinations of these measures could have a worthwhile impact on survival times and , when used as adjuvants , could improve the cure rates achievable with standard therapies .
A synthetic tetracycline , doxycycline , inhibits migration of human MDA - MB - 435 breast adenocarcinoma cells through a reconstituted basement membrane ( Matrigel ) , an assay used as an in vitro surrogate for the in vivo process of tumor invasion through basement membranes .
Coagulation function in patients with pancreatic carcinoma .
There was also a direct correlation between the presence of choroidal neovascularization and size of the PED ( P = 0 . 03 ) .
However , PC12 cells do not precisely reflect the pathogenesis of malignant cells .
The later expression of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 in fibroblasts suggests a role in extracellular matrix remodeling .
Collectively , these data suggest that the DSCR1s promoter directs vascular bed - specific expression in activated endothelium and that DSCR - 1s serves to dampen the host response to infection .
C / EBPbeta and Ki67 , a marker of cell proliferation , were also co - expressed in primary GC .
Autochthonous vessels surrounding other tumors such as renal - cell carcinomas or malignant lymphomas also frequently expressed somatostatin receptors .
These studies thus identify p600 as a shared target of the E7 proteins of multiple papillomaviruses .
Thus , our objective was to explore the expression of COUP - TFII in colorectal cancer as well as its association with clinicopathological features , and to evaluate the role of COUP - TFII as a prognostic indicator in colorectal cancer .
In pre - B acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ) with t ( 1 ; 19 ) translocation , a fusion protein is created between E2A and a homeobox gene PBX .
VEGF165 expressed by a replication - deficient recombinant adenovirus vector induces angiogenesis in vivo .
HYPOTHESIS : We speculate that there is a burst of angiogenesis of distant dormant micrometastases after surgery in approximately 20 % of premenopausal node - positive patients .
METHODOLOGY / PRINCIPAL FINDINGS : Here , we propose a novel HDAC inhibitor , N - Hydroxy - 4 - ( 4 - phenylbutyryl - amino ) benzamide ( HTPB ) , as a potential chemotherapeutic drug for solid tumors .
Simultaneously , MMP - 2 expression increases with malignancy .
PURPOSE : Members of the transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - beta superfamily play critical roles in regulation of various cellular functions .
AKT2 is a downstream target of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 ( Grm1 ) .
Histone deacetylase inhibitors ( HDACi ) are potent anti - cancer agents for variety of cancer types .
BALB - / MK - 2 mouse epidermal keratinocytes required epidermal growth factor for proliferation and terminally differentiated in response to high Ca2 + concentration .
Angiogenesis plays a critical role in the growth and metastasis of tumors .
No significant association was also observed between nm23 - H1 gene product expression in lymph nodes and the patients survival .
We verified this finding by Northern blot analysis .
CONTEXT : Nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( NPC ) , common in southern China and North Africa , has a complex etiology involving interplay between viral , environmental , and hereditary factors and is almost constantly associated with the Epstein - Barr virus .
However , the pathophysiologic role of CD154 expressed by tumor cells remains unclear .
PURPOSE : Neovascularization has profound effects on tumor growth and metastasis .
Inhibition of tumor vascular development has a direct effect on the growth and progression of the tumor .
Overall , this work verified zebrafish as a model for the role of Brca2 in human disease and uncovered a novel function of Brca2 in vertebrate oocyte nuclear architecture .
Immunohistochemical studies showed that the epithelioid cells were strongly positive for a broad spectrum of cytokeratins ( AE1 / AE3 , CAM5 . 2 , epithelial membrane antigen and cytokeratin 7 ) and mesothelial markers ( calretinin , Wilms ' tumour 1 and D2 - 40 ) .
METHODS : Preoperative plasma fibrinogen levels were retrospectively examined in 405 patients who underwent surgery for advanced gastric cancer .
We suggest that the rarity of observed BRCA1 mutations in sporadic breast and ovarian cancer is due to the greater likelihood of BRCA1 inactivation by non - mutational mechanisms such as methylation .
CONCLUSION : PDT preserves vision in patients with CNV associated with PM .
In spleen , tyrosinase , TRP - 1 and SV40 Tag were expressed and tyrosinase was enzymatically active .
In spite of uncertainties regarding the mechanisms of carcinogenesis , several vitamins such as beta - carotene and vitamins A , C , and E , which can reduce the risk of cancer , have been identified , using animal and in vitro models of carcinogenesis .
Although in vivo studies have shown that such inhibition stems from complex interactions of immune cells and the production of IFN - gamma and other downstream angiostatic chemokines , the mechanisms involved are still poorly defined .
In contrast , continuous ( 24h ) treatment with doxorubicin reduced the number of living cells with no parallel raise in the amount of dead cells .
This transporter was expressed on the cell membrane and in the cytoplasm of the tumor cells , but exhibited marked intratumoral and intertumoral variability in the proportions of positive cells and the intensity of staining .
Pretreatment with aspirin and nimesulide inhibited EC9706 and EC109 cell growth in a time and dose - dependent manner , accompanied with a decrease of prostaglandin E2 production .
METHODS : Sixty - two patients ( 62 eyes ) with PM underwent PDT according to the guidelines of the Verteporfin in Photodynamic Therapy Study .
Dietary conjugated linoleic acid ( CLA ) has been shown previously to inhibit rat mammary carcinogenesis .
The results in steady state reveal that both substrates glucose and glutamine are continuously wasted by tumour cells , excreting two moles of lactate per mol of glucose and one mol of glutamate and ammonia per mol of glutamine consumed into the medium .
In support of this hypothesis , other treatments which act through different mechanisms to interfere with protein processing ( i . e . , tunicamycin , brefeldin A , and azetidine ) were also found to be much more toxic for VHL - deficient cells .
Gene array analysis identified significant increases in the expression of mammary epithelial growth factors Wisp2 and Igf - 1 in Tip30 ( - / - ) cells .
We have established a model system to detect the presence of ras p21 in the sera of Balb / c mice carrying tumors induced by a mouse cell line transformed with the Harvey murine sarcoma virus in the presence of a helper Friend murine leukemia virus .
Cells which were grown in media containing 5 and 10 ng / ml TGF - beta demonstrated a low level of colony - forming efficiency in soft agar medium without added epidermal growth factor and tumorigenicity in isogeneic rats .
Reactive astrocytic processes and phagocytic cells are also present in the grafts .
Thus , the differential regulation of hTERT and VEGF in p63 - positive breast carcinomas may contribute to the clinically more aggressive behavior of these neoplasms .
The expression of endostatin in situ and its maintaining time were detected by immunohistochemistry and Western Blot , respectively .
Treatment with tunicamycin produced a 40 - 50 % inhibition of 2 - deoxyglucose uptake and this was associated with a 2 - 2 . 5 - fold decrease in transporter affinity for glucose ( Km ) without a change in Vmax .
Active SHP - 2 then dephosphorylates VEGFR - 2 at Y951 , Y996 and Y1059 , but not Y1175 .
The distinction between these two possibilities is made based on clinicopathologic observations , and therefore may not be definitive .
Increased VEGF expression by malignant tumors has been associated with high vascularity , increased cancer cell growth , and lymph node metastasis .
Characterization of the metabolic changes underlying growth factor angiogenic activation : identification of new potential therapeutic targets .
Downregulation of E - cadherin occurred at the level of transcription or of mRNA stability .
Cells infected with this mutant display a 36 , 000 - dalton protein that is phosphorylated to a considerably lesser extent than cells infected with wild - type virus .
Furthermore , these results demonstrate that different changes of proinflammatory cytokines , CRP and inhibiting factors are consistent with associated clinical benefit or with disease progression , respectively .
The purpose of this study was to determine whether upregulation of PTEN gene by transfection wild - type PTEN gene to ovarian cancer cells can inhibit growth and migration and to explore the potential for PTEN gene therapy of ovarian cancers .
The results indicate that tumor tissue of RCC liberates VEGF into the systemic blood flow and that s - VEGF is a possible marker for RCC .
To this end , we generated endothelial cell lines stably expressing vGPCR or key KSHV latently expressed proteins ( vCyclin , vFlip , and LANA1 ) .
Using GC cell lines we show that C / EBPbeta can regulate the expression of endogenous COX - 2 and transactivate the promoter of the COX - 2 gene , depending on its methylation status .
In the current investigation , we show that p - XSC , but not an equivalent dose of SM , alters molecular targets and induces apoptosis in androgen - responsive LNCaP and androgen - independent LNCaP C4 - 2 human prostate cancer cells .
Furthermore , thrombin increases the secretion of VEGF and enhances the expression and protein synthesis of matrix metalloprotease - 9 and alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) integrin in human prostate cancer PC - 3 cells .
A reduction and not an increase in tumor glucose availability could be a more appropriate strategy for the induction of energy failure in tumors .
The results showed that the expression of full - length T antigen rendered rat embryo fibroblasts ( REF ) sensitive to 5 - FU - induced apoptosis .
The angiogenic switch during tumorigenesis is thought to be induced by a change in the balance of pro - angiogenic and anti - angiogenic factors .
No tumours were induced within the latent period for tumour production by control cells transfected with NIH3T3 cell DNA ( 40 - 60 days ) .
As a result of paracrine signal transmission , the effects of Hedgehog signaling most profoundly influence the stromal cells that constitute the tumor microenvironment .
The role of the pro - inflammatory peptide , LL - 37 , and its pro - form , human cationic antimicrobial protein 18 ( hCAP - 18 ) , in cancer development and progression is poorly understood .
However , this modular protein core also binds with relatively high affinity to a number of growth factors and surface receptors , thereby stabilizing cell - matrix links .
TRADD domain of Epstein - Barr virus transforming protein LMP1 is essential for inducing immortalization and suppressing senescence of primary rodent fibroblasts .
Inhibition of STAT3 activation by expressing a dominant - negative STAT3 protein or a STAT3 - shRNA prevented the OSM - mediated arrest .
Furthermore , we showed that glycogen was depleted in a low glucose medium , but conserved under hypoxic conditions .
Cancer cells typically display gene dysfunction and endogenous or exogenous insults resulting in gene dysfunction are often carcinogenic .
Consequently , mitochondrial integrity is compromised , and the caspase - 9 - dependent cascade is activated in treated tumor cells .
The in vivo role of 9E3 / CEF4 may be involved with chemotaxis and metastasis , rather than with direct stimulation of mitogenicity .
These results indicated that Crk plays a critical role in Rac1 - induced membrane ruffling and Rap1 - mediated nascent focal complex stabilization contributing to ephrin - B1 - induced human aortic endothelial cells migration .
There are currently no other means of treatment for this disorder , which has a high morbidity and mortality rate .
The A431 cells exhibited typical in vitro cell adhesion to the endothelial F - 2 cells .
Tissue factor ( TF ) is an essential initiator of blood coagulation that is expressed in various stages of atherosclerotic lesions in humans and other animals .
Assuming discrimination thresholds between high - grade and low - grade tumours of 0 . 8 for 18F - FDG uptake and 1 . 8 for 123I - IMT uptake , the accuracy values of 18F - FDG PET and 123I - IMT SPET for differentiating between high - grade and low - grade tumours were 21 / 23 ( 91 % ) and 19 / 23 ( 83 % ) , respectively .
Comparisons of presymposium and postsymposium responses and between the 2 groups of attendees indicated that the pediatric dentistry and endodontic communities agree that formocresol will be replaced as a primary tooth pulpotomy agent , that mineral trioxide is the first choice to take its place , that IPT in primary teeth holds hope as a replacement for pulpotomy , and that IPT is an acceptable pulp therapy technique for cariously involved young permanent teeth .
Furthermore , we found that p130 ( Cas ) , but not paxillin , recruited Crk to the nascent focal complex .
Tumor volume and total hemoglobin in allograft mice treated with 50 mg / kg DATS were significantly smaller than that in the control group .
We conclude that anti - angiogenic action of thalidomide is due to direct inhibitory action on VEGF secretion and capillary microvessel formation as well as immunomodulatory influence on EA . hy 926 cells migration and adhesion .
Protein expression was statistically compared to the degree of immune cell infiltration and microvessel density in epithelial - derived ovarian tumors and a significant correlation was observed for both .
TNF - alpha is also an essential component of the immune system and is required for hematopoiesis , for protection from bacterial infection and for immune cell - mediated cytotoxicity .
Many researchers have demonstrated that hematopoietic cells express many homeobox genes .
It has been recognized as the cause of adult T - cell leukemia ( ATL ) .
Western blot analysis demonstrated a > 2 . 5 - fold increase in Fas protein expression , as well as elevation of the active forms of both caspase - 8 and caspase - 3 .
For this purpose , the presence of COX - 2 and PPARgamma was immunohistochemically examined in 71 epithelial ovarian carcinomas , 18 borderline tumours and 23 benign tumours and the levels of COX - 2 and PPARgamma proteins were determined by enzyme immunoassay in four benign tumours , three borderline tumours and 12 carcinomas .
To examine the mechanisms by which insulin regulates VEGF expression , human retinal pigment epithelial ( RPE ) cells were exposed to insulin , and VEGF mRNA levels were quantified with RNase protection assays ( RPAs ) .
METHODS : Thirty - six New Zealand white rabbits were evaluated in this study .
[ Expression of Merlin protein in non - small cell lung carcinoma and the clinical significance ] .
We investigated the roles of the prostaglandin synthases cyclooxygenase ( COX ) I and COX - II in angiogenesis and progesterone production in the newly formed CL , using inhibitors of the COX enzymes and the gonadotropin - induced pseudopregnant rat as a model .
Ras - association domain family 1C protein promotes breast cancer cell migration and attenuates apoptosis .
Six edentulous patients ( aged 60 + / - 9 years ) with a severely atrophic mandible underwent bone augmentation with distraction osteogenesis .
The heart functions ( left ventricle ejection fraction ( LVEF ) , left ventricle fractional shortening ( LVFS ) ) were improved more significantly in the old donor - derived MSCs group than in the control group and the heart function in the young donor - derived MSCs group further improved ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
The cellular and molecular mechanisms by which a tumour cell undergoes metastasis to a predetermined location are largely unknown .
Effect of ROS on angiogenesis in tumors expressing hot - spot p53 mutants was correlated with their ability to increase a content of HIF1 transcriptional factor responsible for up - regulation of VEGF - A mRNAs .
Here , we review the role of the Hedgehog pathway in the signature characteristics of cancer cells that determine tumor development , progression , and metastasis .
In this study , we investigated whether the nuclear transcription factor NF - kappaB , implicated in PC metastasis , is involved in transcriptional regulation and activation of BMP - 2 or BMP - 4 / Smad signaling in PC cells .
Oocytes in double - mutant females showed normal localization of brca2 and pou5f1 transcripts to the animal pole and vasa transcripts to the vegetal pole , but had a polarized rather than symmetrical nucleus with the distribution of nucleoli and chromosomes to opposite nuclear poles ; this result revealed a novel role for Brca2 in establishing or maintaining oocyte nuclear architecture .
RT - PCR and western blot techniques were used to validate target gene expression .
This study highlights the advantages of arranging the BHRF1 miRNAs in clusters : it allows the synchronous and synergistic expression of genetic elements that cooperate to transform their target cells .
Two of 12 cell lines formed xenografts in mice .
Thus , p21 coupled p53 - dependent checkpoint control and preservation of chromosomal stability , and cooperated with apoptosis in suppressing tumor onset in mice .
This study examines the mechanism of HKa and D5 inhibition of two potent stimulators of endothelial cell migration , sphingosine 1 - phosphate ( S1P ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , that act through the P13 - kinase - Akt signaling pathway .
The expression of NP - 1 , NP - 2 , and plexin - A1 was not altered in human ovarian surface epithelial and ovarian cancer cells .
Swainsonine caused a great distortion to the vasculature at 18 weeks .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the effect of osteopontin silencing on the invasion and apoptosis of U251 cells .
The only CD8 + CD56 + postthymic T - cell lymphoma also expressed all three cytolytic markers , two CD8 - ALCL expressed TIA1 ; other postthymic T - cell , T - lymphoblastic , and B - cell lymphomas were consistently negative .
We hypothesized that activation of store - operated Ca2 + channels ( SOCs ) is sufficient to promote cell shape change necessary for these processes .
Using tissue - specific ablation in mice , we deleted the BR - SMADs from somatic cells of ovaries and testes .
They establish cyclin D1 as a proto - oncogene whose activity appears to depend on a specific cell type as well as on a specific cooperating partner and link disturbances in the regulation of cell cycle progression to the development of human malignancies .
A further study found that FGFR2 - positive fibroblasts were only observed inside the tumor tissues and not in tumor - surrounding stromal tissues , suggesting that FGFR2 could be used as a TF - specific marker in ESCC .
In contrast , cancer cells depend mostly on glycolysis , the aerobic breakdown of glucose into ATP .
Although angiostatin administered intravenously is cleared from the circulation in a matter of minutes , angiostatin - mimetics that are more stable have potential for clinical application .
Instead , a translational regulation is suggested , since syndecan - 1 core protein synthesis was E - cadherin dependent .
Expression of thymidylate synthase and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase in primary oral squamous cell carcinoma and corresponding metastases in cervical lymph nodes : association with the metastasis suppressor CD82 .
HIF - 2alpha expression in human fetal paraganglia and neuroblastoma : relation to sympathetic differentiation , glucose deficiency , and hypoxia .
The expression of SREBP and Cdc42 were determined by Western blot and quantitative real - time PCR .
METHODS : Human umbilical endothelial cells were treated with angiostatin or thalidomide and bFGF - induced proliferation was assessed with the MTT assay .
Enhancement of docetaxel - induced cytotoxicity and apoptosis by all - trans retinoic acid ( ATRA ) through downregulation of survivin ( BIRC5 ) , MCL - 1 and LTbeta - R in hormone - and drug resistant prostate cancer cell line , DU - 145 .
RASMC proliferation was unaffected by infection with AdCMV . VEGF165 .
The cell autonomous function of p53 in melanocytes is not well described , however , the balance of the evidence suggests that p53 is an effective tumor suppressor and the myriad of mechanisms by which the p53 pathway may be dysregulated in tumors attests to it importance as a tumor suppressor .
Heart rate decreased by 32 % for 20 to 40 minutes after injection and was chronically reduced by 10 % , 14 % , and 18 . 5 % after 1 , 2 , and 3 weeks of treatment , respectively .
The aptamer - induced dimerization and inactivation of M2 - PK led to a significant decrease in the PK mass - action ratio as well as ATP : ADP ratio in the target cells .
c - Ski , originally identified as a proto - oncogene product , is an important negative regulator of transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - beta family signaling through interaction with Smad2 , Smad3 , and Smad4 .
Effect of U - 995 , a potent shark cartilage - derived angiogenesis inhibitor , on anti - angiogenesis and anti - tumor activities .
Monitoring peroxide - induced changes in GSH and GSSG gave consistent results ; e . g . , glucose - depleted L . Se ( + ) cells exhibited a first order loss of GSH that was substantially faster than that of glucose - depleted L . Se ( - ) cells .
RNA encoding glucokinase ( GK ) , the high - Km HK isozyme , was found only in cancer cells originating from liver and pancreas , which express GK under normal conditions .
This was confirmed with chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments of the human c - Met promoter , as well as by the ability of adenovirally expressed Mitf to modulate endogenous c - Met protein levels in melanocytes .
They also serve as important intracellular signaling molecules that amplify the synovial inflammatory - proliferative response .
Our initial investigations show that the naturally occurring organoselenium compound selenomethionine ( SM ) and the synthetic 1 , 4 - phenylenebis ( methylene ) selenocyanate ( p - XSC ) can inhibit human prostate cancer cell viability ; however , in contrast to SM , p - XSC is active at physiologically relevant doses .
A better understanding of the mechanisms of arteriogenesis will be important for the design of more effective strategies for the treatment of patients with ischemic vascular diseases .
In addition , LMP1 plays pleiotropic roles in cell growth arrest , differentiation , and apoptosis , depending on the background of the target cells .
The epithelioid cells were entirely supported by proliferated capillaries and arteries together with collagenous stroma .
Tumor - free mice were used as controls .
Vascular histomorphometry was carried out in two different areas in the distraction gap : ( 1 ) in the first and ( 2 ) in the second 1 mm area from the osteotomy line , representing the oldest and younger new - bone area , respectively .
Our results suggest heterogeneity in angiogenic activity and vessel maturation of CC - RCC , to a large extent linked to nuclear grade , and , with probable therapeutic implications .
Here we show that exponentially growing NIH 3T3 fibroblasts recently transformed by Ha - ras or Ki - ras possess elevated DG concentrations without significant alterations in the levels of other polyphosphoinositide metabolites .
Genetic instability is a hallmark of human cancers .
Treatment with cyclopamine significantly attenuated vascular formation by a factor of 2 . 5 ( P less than 0 . 001 ) and altered vascular morphology .
Collagen - poly glycolic acid hybrid matrix with basic fibroblast growth factor accelerated angiogenesis and granulation tissue formation in diabetic mice .
13C and 1H nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( NMR ) was used to investigate the metabolism of L - lactate and D - glucose in C6 glioma cells .
While the role of protein tyrosine kinases has been examined extensively in human breast tumorigenesis , the role of PTPases in this process is virtually unknown .
The age and oral habits of patients , as well as the tumor site and size , did not appear to be correlated with h - MVD or VEGF immunoreactivity .
Further , delivery of an appropriate combination of DAPT and VEGF from an injectable alginate hydrogel system into ischemic hindlimbs led to a faster recovery of blood flow than VEGF or DAPT alone ; perfusion levels reached 80 % of the normal level by week 4 with combined DAPT and VEGF delivery .
Here we report that the distal region of the hepatoma type II hexokinase promoter displays consensus motifs for hypoxia - inducible factor ( HIF - 1 ) that overlap E - box sequences known to be related in other gene promoters to glucose response .
METHODS : Corneas of 105 rabbits were infected with viable yeast cells of C . albicans ( 2 . 5 x 10 ( 5 ) ) .
This was markedly suppressed upon simultaneous injection of anti - VEGF polyclonal antibodies with the supernatant .
The results show that , without affecting in vitro human PMN viability and chemokine - receptor expression , Hyp ( as stable dicyclohexylammonium salt ) was able to inhibit in a dose - dependent manner their chemotaxis and chemoinvasion ( IC50 = 1 microM for both ) ; this effect was associated with a reduced expression of the adhesion molecule CD11b by formyl - Met - Leu - Phe - stimulated neutrophils and block of LE - triggered activation of the gelatinase matrix metalloproteinase - 9 .
Sorafenib inhibited the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 and its inhibition led to accumulation of LC3 - II .
To directly address whether pericyte dysfunction increases the metastatic potential of solid tumors , we studied beta cell tumorigenesis in primary pericyte - deficient Pdgfb ( ret / ret ) mice .
Repetitive cycles of hypoxia and reoxygenation associated with changes in synovial perfusion are postulated to activate hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha and nuclear factor - kappaB , two key transcription factors that are regulated by changes in cellular oxygenation and cytokine stimulation , and that in turn orchestrate the expression of a spectrum of genes critical to the persistence of synovitis .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : The paraffin sections from 49 subjects with OSCC were subjected to immunohistochemical studies to measure the highest MVD ( h - MVD ) and cytoplasmic immunoreactivity of VEGF .
RAGE ( receptor for AGE ) is the best characterized signal transduction receptor for AGEs and is expressed on mesothelial cells .
Robo4 knockdown endothelial cells unexpectedly show up regulation of Rho GTPases .
These two somewhat diametrically opposed roles will be discussed in light of new data emerging from various fields which converge on perlecan as a key regulator of cell growth and angiogenesis .
However , the role of the TSH - R - related cAMP pathway alterations in thyroid transformation remains to be elucidated .
The heightened sensitivity of VHL - deficient cells was not attributed to dissimilar energy requirements or to differences in glucose uptake , but more likely reflects a lesser ability of VHL - deficient cells to handle abnormally processed proteins arising from impaired glycosylation .
Because many questions will require in vivo studies to be properly addressed , the zebrafish , with its unique accessibility to analysis by combined embryological , molecular , and genetic methods , should prove invaluable in identifying new molecules involved in blood vessel development and integrating pathways that influence embryonic blood vessel formation .
A better understanding of how p53 coordinates metabolic adaptation will facilitate the identification of novel therapeutic targets and will also illuminate the wider role of p53 in human biology .
Here , we investigated the expression of Ets - 1 during reendothelialization .
The compound was orally bioavailable ( 31 % after a single 10 mg kg ( - 1 ) dose ) and resistant to metabolism .
Our group seeks to determine the basic mechanisms underlying ES wound therapy , an area where understanding is currently limited .
Evaluation of VEGF expression level with the same tissues was used to establish the antigenic profiles , and the marker of CD34 staining was used as an indicator of microvessel density ( MVD ) .
Tobacco smoke promotes lung tumorigenesis by triggering IKKbeta - and JNK1 - dependent inflammation .
Blockade of angiogenesis is an important approach for cancer treatment and prevention .
In addition , serum concentration of the angiogenesis inhibitor , endostatin , decreased significantly after primary tumor removal .
During 8 days of culture under 5 % O ( 2 ) , but not room air , the addition of FGF2 to explants stimulated the formation of Gs - IB ( 4 - ) positive , CD31 - positive , and Flk - 1 - positive microvessels in a concentration - dependent manner .
The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of tricyclic antidepressant desipramine ( DMI ) on the growth inhibition and translocation of the glucocorticoid receptor ( GR ) from the cytoplasm to the nucleus in cancerous and noncancerous cell lines and the effect of DMI on GR - mediated transcription .
In conclusion , HAH - cortisol represents the prototype of a new class of angiogenesis inhibitors for the treatment of cancer and other angiogenic diseases .
In murine models , the latter produces a hyperproliferative response to G - CSF , confers resistance to apoptosis , and enhances cell survival .
The capacity of insulin to stimulate the VEGF promoter linked to a luciferase reporter gene was characterized in transient transfection assays .
Expression of KISS1 and MMP - 9 in non - small cell lung cancer and their relations to metastasis and survival .
OBJECTIVE : Although DCC has been considered as a candidate tumor suppressor , the roles it plays in the uterine endometrium and in the carcinogenic process remains unclear .
The application of molecular technology may play an important role for the differential diagnosis between synchronous primary carcinomas and a single carcinoma with metastasis .
BMECs co - expressing SV40T , hTERT and N - ras exhibited an overtly transformed phenotype ; forming very large colonies with an altered morphology and generating rapidly growing tumours in vivo .
Topo I expression now needs to be evaluated in patients undergoing topo I - inhibitor therapy , to better define the role of this protein as a predictive marker .
Interactions among growth factors , cells , and extracellular matrix regulate proliferation during normal development and in pathologies such as atherosclerosis .
Low transcript expression alone ( P = 0 . 003 ) or combined with methylation ( P = 0 . 019 ) was associated with poor disease - specific survival ( n = 205 ) .
The tumour growth inhibition efficacy , antiangiogenic potential and pharmacokinetics of STX243 were examined using four in vivo models .
As a result , he and other investigators demonstrated that VPF was capable of stimulating endothelial cell growth and angiogenesis .
The majority had nuclear ( 70 . 1 % ) or nuclear and cytoplasmic staining ( 17 . 3 % ) .
OBJECTIVES : This study sought to assess the cellular and histologic basis of irreversible pulmonary hypertension ( PHT ) in the clinical setting of congenital heart disease ( CHD ) .
Interestingly , neovascularization of the implants irradiated with 10 fractions ( 3000 cGy ) was not significantly decreased compared with irradiation with three fractions ( 900 cGy ) .
The present study evaluated the effect of cumene hydroperoxide ( Cum - OOH ) on the induction of activator protein - 1 ( AP - 1 ) , which is linked to the expression of genes regulating cell proliferation , growth and transformation .
However , monolayer cultures differ greatly from the complex environmental conditions generated in solid tumors that develop inhomogeneous hypoxic and necrotic regions .
This may explain why some patients remain without symptoms or signs of ischemia .
Furthermore , slow release administration by subcutaneous injection using an Alzet osmotic pump of a potent and bio - stable T140 analog , 4F - benzoyl - TN14003 , gave a partial , but statistically significant ( P < / = 0 . 05 ( t - test ) ) reduction in pulmonary metastasis of MDA - MB - 231 in SCID mice , even though no attempt was made to inhibit other important targets such as CCR7 .
After SCC transformation , the absence of G45 domain in DeltaG45 cells was associated with deficient extracellular signal - regulated kinase and phosphotidylinositol 3 - kinase ( PI3K ) pathway activation , impaired invasion , deficient metalloproteinase activity , and absent tumorgenicity in vivo .
IL - 1Ra also improved islet vascularization , reduced fibrosis and ameliorated glycemia .
Tail vein injection of N - ( 1 - ( 2 , 3 - dioleoyloxy ) propyl ) - N , N , N - trimethylammonium chloride ( DOTAP ) / cholesterol lipoplexes resulted in increased lipoplex entrapment in hypervascularized liver but did not boost luciferase expression , suggesting that lipoplex delivery is not a sufficient condition for efficient organ lipofection .
Molecular requirements for epithelial - mesenchymal transition during tumor progression .
However , treatment of cells with SB202190 or SP600125 , inhibitors of p38 MAPK and JNK respectively , did not affect HUVEC migration .
Lactate - dehydrogenase 5 is overexpressed in non - small cell lung cancer and correlates with the expression of the transketolase - like protein 1 .
A two sided correlation between the expression of TKTL1 and LDH5 could be shown ( p = 0 . 002 ) within the overall cohort as well as for each grading and pN group .
These findings suggest that c - Myc and / or HIF - 1alpha activities are both involved in the regulation of glycolysis in breast cancers .
Consistently , it was found that MOG rapidly decreased the intracellular glutathione ( GSH ) content in a dose - dependent manner and the significance of GSH depletion in MOG - induced apoptosis was further supported by the protective effects of tert - butylhydroquinone ( tBHQ ) and the facilitative effects of DL - buthionine ( S , R ) - sulfoximine ( BSO ) .
Collectively , our results suggest the proinflammatory and essential role of IL - 17F to develop spontaneous intestinal tumorigenesis in Apc ( Min / + ) mice in the presence of IL - 17A .
The greatest potential for angiogenesis inhibitors may lie in their ability to combine safely with chemotherapy and radiotherapy .
These RNAs were not detectable in reticuloendotheliosis virus - transformed T cells .
However , a statistically significant correlation was found between the surface expression of CD40 and the metastatic spread of the tumor .
The results suggest that chronic exposure to high concentration of TGF - beta promotes the spontaneous neoplastic transformation of cultured rat liver epithelial cells , and that this process may represent one of the mechanisms of cellular adaptation for induction of the multidrug - resistant phenotype during the carcinogenesis of epithelial cells .
Autocrine angiogenic vascular prosthesis with bone marrow transplantation .
Forced expression of SEMA3B , but not SEMA3F , inhibited viability of ovarian cancer cells .
Since EVT cells possess active invasion - associated genes but are nontumorigenic , our objective was to induce premalignant and then malignant phenotype into a normal EVT cell line in order to identify the molecular basis of tumor progression .
We used these data to establish a convenient , effective and non - radioactive ELISA screening technique for the identification and evaluation of potential inhibitors for VEGFR - 2 kinase .
After over 30 years of theorizing , the use of angiogenesis inhibitors as anticancer therapy has finally moved from the realm of research to reality .
Several factors contribute to the start of intimal thickening .
In summary , these novel studies identify and characterize a marked glucose - modulated activation response of the type II hexokinase gene to hypoxic conditions within highly glycolytic hepatoma cells , a property that may help assure that such cells exhibit a growth and survival advantage over their parental cells of origin .
CONCLUSION : IMVD may be an important indicator to predict cervical lymphatic metastasis in LSCC .
The pomegranate tree , Punica granatum , especially its fruit , possesses a vast ethnomedical history and represents a phytochemical reservoir of heuristic medicinal value .
Moreover , when introduced into nude mice , selected clones generated from either gene were able to induce tumors , although those carrying the mutated version were more efficient .
Expression and purification of the catalytic domain of human vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 for inhibitor screening .
Here , we investigated whether angiogenesis and tumor metastasis are dependent on hypoxia conditioning - induced TB4 expression in B16F10 melanoma cells .
The apparent mesenchymal to epithelial conversion of the tumor cells mimics the conversion that occurs during embryonic kidney development , suggesting that Met - HGF / SF signaling plays a role in this process as well as in tumors that express both epithelial and mesenchymal markers .
In vitro , insulin increased VEGF mRNA levels in human RPE cells and enhanced VEGF promoter activity without affecting transcript stability .
Angiogenic activity of the aqueous humor was quantified by measuring its effect on the migration of capillary endothelial cells .
Nitric oxide ( NO ) is an important molecule in regulating tumour blood flow and stimulating tumour angiogenesis .
As shown previously , ectopic expression of Runx2 in the thymus leads to a preneoplastic state defined by an accumulation of cells with an immature phenotype and a low proliferative rate .
Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest is found at the end of this article .
Additional analysis of the mechanism of action of Go6976 ( RT - PCR , Western blots , and immunohistochemistry ) of the changes in the phosphorylated and nonphosphorylated forms of PKCalpha in the cell membrane and cytoplasm confirmed the specificity of PKCalpha inhibition by Go6976 .
Converging studies from many investigators indicate that RUNX1 has a critical role in the correct maintenance of essential cellular functions during embryonic development and after birth .
The correlation between the expression of COUP - TFII and clinicopathologic features was investigated .
The pathophysiology involves inflammation and angiogenesis .
A novel putative tyrosine kinase receptor with oncogenic potential .
RhoA activation promotes transformation and loss of thyroid cell differentiation interfering with thyroid transcription factor - 1 activity .
Furthermore , mast cells have no mitogenic activity for capillary endothelial cells .
Prevention of hepatic tumor metastases in rats with herpes viral vaccines and gamma - interferon .
Direct involvement of BRCA1 in the development of breast and ovarian cancer is suggested by the finding that the BRCA1 promoter region CpG island is methylated in a proportion of breast and ovarian cancers .
The endothelial cell line expressing vGPCR was rendered sensitive to treatment with the nucleoside analogue ganciclovir by using a bicistronic construct coexpressing the herpes simplex virus 1 thymidine kinase .
TUNEL assay and microvessel density was assessed to evaluate apoptosis and angiogenesis .
LVI is associated with axillary lymph node metastases ( ALNM ) and a long - term prognostic factor .
RESULTS : There was a positive correlation between plasma fibrinogen levels and the depth of invasion ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
Interestingly , we found that K5CDK4 mice show a decreased number of pituitary stem cells , even though CDK4 is not expressed in the stem cells but in transit - amplifying ( TA ) - like cells .
In the present study , we developed the first specific inhibitors of the pyruvate kinase isoenzyme type M2 and present evidence that these inhibitors moderately decelerate tumor cell proliferation .
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE : Cerebral cavernous malformations ( CCMs ) are prevalent cerebral vascular lesions involving aberrant angiogenesis .
Adenovirus - mediated gene transfer of endostatin in vivo results in high level of transgene expression and inhibition of tumor growth and metastases .
M - CSF also induced the nuclear localization of Sp1 , which was blocked by ERK inhibition .
The authors found that patients in the high PE group survived for a significantly shorter time than those patients in the low PE group .
Interestingly , c - Ski overexpression resulted in extensive acceleration of the growth of subcutaneous xenografts in BALB / c nu / nu female mice ( 6 weeks of age ) .
The ability of LRP - 1 to regulate expression of the factors identified here suggests a role for LRP - 1 in determining blood vessel structure and in angiogenesis .
Radiation retinopathy is treatable with anti - vascular endothelial growth factor bevacizumab ( Avastin ) .
Both h - MVD and VEGF immunoreactivity were statistically associated with lymph node metastasis ( P = . 012 and . 037 , respectively ) .
Rab GTPase regulation of VEGFR2 trafficking and signaling in endothelial cells .
Among a myriad of biological activities described for xanthone derivatives , the anticancer activity is quite remarkable , but the molecular mechanism is not clearly resolved .
Destruction of an existing vasculature also directly inflicts serious damage to the tumor cell .
Additionally , the synergistic apoptotic effects of MOG with As2O3 were detected in HL - 60 and primary AML cells , but not in normal cells , suggesting the selective toxicity of their combination to the malignant cells .
Furthermore , treatment of immunocompetent mice in the spontaneous lung metastases model with rAAV2 / 5 - VAS after primary tumor excision prolonged their median survival from 21 to 51 . 5 days .
c - Ski overexpression promotes tumor growth and angiogenesis through inhibition of transforming growth factor - beta signaling in diffuse - type gastric carcinoma .
CONCLUSION : Exposure of clonal B lymphocytes from patients with CLL to simvastatin decreases viability significantly by the induction of apoptosis .
TES2 mediates the interaction with tumor necrosis factor receptor - associated death domain protein ( TRADD ) and plays a key role in transactivating NF - kappa B and AP - 1 .
RESULTS : Cell clones expressing elevated levels of p75 showed a high degree of apoptosis even in 10 % serum - supplemented medium .
To characterize the effects of CK1delta on SV40 - induced mammary carcinogenesis , we generated transgenic mice expressing mutant CK1delta under the control of the whey acidic protein ( WAP ) gene promoter , and crossed them with SV40 transgenic WAP - T - antigen ( WAP - T ) mice .
Evaluation of electrical stimulation for ischemic wound therapy : a feasibility study using the lapine wound model .
Identification of latency - associated transcripts that map antisense to the ICP4 homolog gene of Marek ' s disease virus .
P18 showed the highest IC50 and blocked angiogenesis in vivo : P23 was inactive and P14 was proangiogenic .
The effects of exogenous DCC and netrin - 1 expression were observed together with the respective expression vector transfection .
However , the 5 - year survival rate of patients with high MMP - 9 protein expression were lower than those with low expression ( 19 vs . 4 . 7 % , p < 0 . 05 ) .
Here we examined expression of type IV collagenases in parental LTA and NIH 3T3 cells ( with and without ras ) and four metastatic LTA x NIH 3T3 hybrids ( also with and without ras ) .
In experimental breast cancer , estradiol increased IL - 8 whereas the anti - estrogen tamoxifen inhibited the secretion of IL - 8 both in vitro and extracellularly in vivo in tumors of nude mice .
The role of p53 in glucose metabolism .
The structure of the myc gene has been elucidated from studies on translocated versions of the gene .
CONCLUSION : TEMF therapy provided a safe means for retarding tumor vascularization , growth and metastasis .
AID deaminates cytidines in DNA resulting in U : G mismatches that are processed into point mutations in SHM or double - strand breaks in CSR .
CONCLUSION : Quantitative assessment is more sensitive as a measure of cellular protein content as compared with standard optical density measurements .
It involves endothelial cell activation , basal membrane degradation , leukocyte invasion , proliferation of vascular cells , neointima formation ( in most species studied ) , and changes of the extracellular matrix .
In vitro studies have shown that the mast cell seems to behave as a helper cell for capillary endothelial cells , in some way speeding up their rate of directional migration .
Among them , 29 were gradually up - regulated whereas 17 were down - regulated with increasing metastatic potential .
Taken together , these data suggest that signal - controlled activation of SRF , MRTF - A , and CBP provides a novel connection between mechanical stimuli and angiogenic gene expression .
The caprine placenta is usually considered to have increased interhemal distance compared with endotheliochorial and hemochorial types : our results suggest that the very extensive development of sinusoids and crypts may compensate for any negative consequences of the placental architecture .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) in seizures : a double - edged sword .
In vitro cell proliferation , combination studies and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) secretion analyses were performed on endothelial ( HMVEC - d ) and colorectal cancer ( HT - 29 ) cells exposed for 144 h to metronomic concentrations of SN - 38 , the active metabolite of CPT - 11 , L - OHP and 5 - FU .
Differentially expressed genes were identified , and a subset was evaluated by quantitative real - time PCR and immunohistochemistry .
Neuroblastoma is derived from SNS precursors .
However , E mu - directed coexpression of cyclin D1 and N - MYC or L - MYC in double transgenic mice reveals a strong cooperative effect between MYC and cyclin D1 provoking the rapid development of clonal pre - B and B - cell lymphomas .
The cells on 15 - microm wide strips completely aligned in the direction of the strip , and had significantly lower shape index than those in all other groups .
Stimulation of angiogenesis by adipose tissue was nearly abolished by bevacizumab , which specifically targets human VEGF .
Restored DCC expression in the cancer cell lines in the absence of netrin - 1 induced apoptosis .
The CD47 receptor did slightly increase with malignancy except for H3327 .
Using MDA - MB - 231 cells , in which FOXO3a activity can be induced by 4 - hydroxytamoxifen , we showed that FOXO3a induction up - regulates PI3K - Akt activity and enhanced doxorubicin resistance .
[ Inhibitory effect of adenovirus - mediated endostatin gene transfer on transplanted lung carcinoma in mice ]
Eligible patients had CNV in which the central boundary of the lesion was between 1 and 199 microm from the geometric center of the foveal avascular zone ( FAZ ) .
Promoting angiogenesis via manipulation of VEGF responsiveness with notch signaling .
Thus the results obtained by 31P and 13C MRS correlated with the differentiation state of H4 and H5 spheroids and tumors .
An additional anti - tumour effect was demonstrated when L - NAME was added to the synergistic combination of melphalan and TNF ( responses increased from 70 to 100 % ) .
Prior studies showed enhancement of such carcinogenesis by repeated 20 rad head and neck X - radiation exposures , and it was proposed that one possible mechanism was radiogenic alteration of the functional microvasculature in a manner which favored subsequent tumor development .
A validated assay in human fat tissue is needed to study the role of angiogenesis in human obesity .
CONCLUSIONS : LDH5 is overexpressed in NSCLC and could hence serve as an additional marker for malignancy .
CONCLUSIONS : These observations suggested that several subtypes of the AQP family play a role in human breast carcinogenesis .
RESULTS : Survivin expression was noted in 30 ( 81 % ) of breast carcinomas , and in normal breast tissue , in nuclei , and cytoplasm .
Since the function of 9E3 / CEF4 is unknown , we examined the effect of the protein on mitogenicity and chemotaxis , as well as its expression , in fibroblasts and peripheral blood cells .
Inhibition of ethanol metabolism by 4 - methylpyrazole partially abrogated the effect of ethanol on endothelial cell cord formation .
This organ is derived from an upwards growth of the primitive oropharynx , a K5 - expressing tissue .
However , these cells can be sensitized to 8 - aminoadenosine under glucose - limiting conditions .
The present study compares the radiomodification by 2 - DG in monolayer cultures and spheroids of a human glioma cell line ( BMG - 1 ) to gain insight into the effects in solid tumors .
Finally , we identified FGF13 as a new prognostic marker that predicted poorer outcome in patients who were clinically considered free from disease .
Successful FV closure was usually indicated immediately by presence of incarcerated ICG dye in the vessel adjacent to the burn site .
After cytocentrifugation the specimens were stained in accordance with the alkaline phosphatase anti - alkaline phosphatase ( APAAP ) method .
The erbA / myb IRES virus exhibited a 5 - 10 - fold higher transformed colony forming efficiency than the erbA IRES virus in the blastoderm assay .
Counteracting islet endothelial cell inflammation might be one way to ameliorate / prevent beta - cell dysfunction in type 2 diabetes .
The CCAAT / enhancer - binding protein beta ( C / EBPbeta ) transcription factor has been associated with several cancer models .
In contrast , caspase - 3 , Fas ligand , Fas / CD95 , and PAI showed an inverse correlation to lymph node involvement .
RAF265 , a novel B - Raf / vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 2 inhibitor , was evaluated in the preclinical setting for its ability to inhibit the uptake of PET tracers in the A375M ( B - Raf ( V600E ) ) human melanoma cell line .
These enzymes and their physiologic inhibitors , the tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases ( TIMPs ) , act in a coordinated manner to form an integrated system .
Moreover , the tumor vascular bed can be manipulated facilitating enhanced permissiveness of the tumor for administered chemotherapeutics .
Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays further confirmed specific c - Myc binding to galectin - 1 promoter .
Furthermore , LDH5 correlates positively with the prognostic marker TKTL1 .
This review will focus on perlecan - growth factor interactions and describe recent advances in our understanding of this highly conserved proteoglycan during development , cancer growth , and angiogenesis .
The present study shows that a mutant with an LMP1 site - specific mutation at TES2 , LMP1 ( TRADD ) , initially stimulates cell growth and significantly extends the life span of MEF .
We assessed survivin expression in breast carcinomas correlating results with expression of other antiapoptotic ( bcl - 2 , bcl - x ) and proapoptotic ( bax ) markers , with prognostic parameters , and with prognosis .
CONCLUSIONS : PLD may be of potential benefit in the prediction of neck metastasis in PTMC .
Leukocyte - vessel wall interactions were studied both within and outside small tumors growing in the ear , and in ear microvessels of mice with a large tumor growing on their flank .
PEDF was found to be decreased in diabetics ( mean values : 2080 vs . 5780 ng / ml ; p = 0 . 04 ) compared to controls .
Both COL - I and COL - V showed statistically significant ( P less than 0 . 05 ) increased activity between day 7 and day 14 for pattern A , potentially indicating a continued effect on matrix remodeling .
We have previously shown that IFI16 is required for proinflammatory gene stimulation by IFN - gamma through the NF - kappaB complex .
When the macro - molecular synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide ( CHX ) or actinomycin D ( Act D ) was present for 26 hours in the absence of GM - CSF and FBS , apoptosis was inhibited .
Transforming growth factor beta 1 promotes spontaneous transformation of cultured rat liver epithelial cells .
Recently , significant improvements in survival have been achieved through the use of combination chemotherapy and monoclonal antibody regimens .
After confirming the results in agar - processed cell lines , annexin II and beta ( 2 ) - tubulin expression were found to be lower in tumor cells than in adjacent normal epithelial cells in 100 % and 90 % of the patients ' specimens , respectively .
The pro - angiogenic capacities of perlecan that involve proliferative and migratory signals in response to bound growth factors will be explored , as well as the anti - angiogenic signals resulting from interactions between the C - terminal domain known as endorepellin and integrins that control adhesion of cells to the extracellular matrix .
These immortally transformed cells ( KMST - 6 ) showed no clonability in soft agar and were not tumorigenic .
Six patients ( 46 % ) had a clinical response .
Furthermore , we demonstrate that increased vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) - A secretion by tumor cells , as well as activation of VEGF receptor - 2 in bone marrow cells does not alter the mobilization and incorporation of marrow - derived endothelial progenitors into tumor vasculature .
Comparison between RNA / DNA sequence of viral oncogenes and normal human genome of non - transformed cells revealed high sequence similarities in specific genomic areas , which were named cellular proto - oncogens .
This model highlighted the role of VEGF in angiogenesis in both SAT and VAT .
No statistically significant relationships were found between age at onset of MDS or AML and patient gender , G - CSF dose , or duration of G - CSF therapy .
Here we have demonstrated that mechanical strain - dependent induction of the CCN1 gene involves signaling cascades through RhoA - mediated actin remodeling and the p38 stress - activated protein kinase ( SAPK ) .
Consistent with the in vitro data , GSE treatment of tumor - bearing mice led to concomitant reduction of blood vessel density and phosphorylation of mitogen - activated protein kinase .
Lewis lung carcinomas , MT - ret melanomas , and B16F10 melanomas all grew slower in Ang - 2 - deficient mice .
Invasion of adjacent organs was more frequent in the RSCM group than in the RSCB group and the Ki - 67 labeling index of the tumors was significantly higher in the former group .
A connection between CAM and adipose tissue vessels was evidenced by immunohistochemistry , with recruitment of both avian and human endothelial cells .
Hypoxic induction of HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma lines is mediated by stress activated protein kinases .
The induction of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and interleukin - 8 ( IL - 8 ) is an essential feature of tumor angiogenesis , and the hypoxia - inducible factor - 1 ( HIF - 1 ) transcription factor is known to be a key regulator of this process .
However , agents such as verteporfin , a second - generation benzoporphyrin derivative , appear to be free from the extensive phototoxicity that limited the success of previous agents .
To better understand the activity of cediranib against VEGFR - 3 and its associated signaling events compared with its activity against VEGFR - 2 , we used the receptor - specific ligands VEGF - E and VEGF - C156S .
TSP - 1 inhibits angiogenesis by inhibiting endothelial cell migration and proliferation and by inducing apoptosis .
Therefore , this enhancing effect does not result from an idiosyncrasy of the EBV genome but rather reflects a general property of these miRNAs .
However , its transcript has been found in many soft , extracellular matrix - producing tissues ; an osteonectin - related protein was detected in tumor basement membrane .
Class - 3 semaphorins , semaphorin - 3B ( SEMA3B ) and semaphorin - 3F ( SEMA3F ) , illustrate their effects by forming a complex with neuropilins ( NP - 1 or NP - 2 ) and plexins .
For patients with limb threatening ischaemia the only option for relief of rest pain or gangraena is amputation .
Possible role of cyclooxygenase II in the acquisition of ovarian luteal function in rodents .
The level of necrosis , as measured by propidium iodide internalization , increased significantly after 24 hours exposure to Sim at 50 microM ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
uPA and uPAR levels were not significantly associated with tumour staging or survival .
The study presented here examined the ability of specific regions and activities of T antigen to modulate apoptosis in cells treated with the genotoxic agent 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) .
However , the function of bFGF in parenchymal cells remains to be determined .
Rat - 1 cells which had been transformed with the activated Ha - ras - 1 gene from human EJ bladder carcinoma cells were fused with diploid embryonic rat fibroblasts .
Affymetrix - microarray analysis was performed using T47D cells over - expressing RASSF1C to identify RASSF1C target genes .
No effective medical therapies have been developed sofar to enhance blood flow in the legs of patients with peripheral arterial disease ( PAD ) .
The accumulation of genetic alterations of some proto - oncogens , like the erbB - family , may be part of the mechanism , by which malignant cells can acquire a selective growth advantage .
The corresponding transcripts in KE and A - 1235 cells contain 1053 additional nucleotides representing an in - frame duplication of exons 18 through 25 which encode the entire TK region and a portion of the CAIN domain .
One possibility is that the gross chromosomal alterations frequently observed in HCC DNA at the site of HBV integration may alter the expression of important nearby cellular genes .
Archival tissues from 40 patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma who received primary surgical resection were examined for HSP27 by immunohistochemistry and correlated with clinical stage , lymph node metastasis , histological grade and survival period .
These functions include the first stages of sprouting in angiogenesis , cell migration following wounding , and vascular permeability .
In the orthotopic xenograft model , rAAV2 / 5 - VAS suppressed metastasis of A549 tumors to mediastinal lymph nodes and contralateral lung .
RUNX1 DNA - binding mutations and RUNX1 - PRDM16 cryptic fusions in BCR - ABL + leukemias are frequently associated with secondary trisomy 21 and may contribute to clonal evolution and imatinib resistance .
The bFGF loaded PLGA - heparin microspheres were tested for in vitro release and in vivo angiogenic activity .
Oxygen consumption of HepG2 cells supported by either pyruvate / malate or succinate was inhibited when cells were pre - incubated with 3 - BrPA in glucose - free medium .
Using wound - healing assay and Boyden chamber assay , GA had potent inhibitory effects on AGS cell migration .
Previous studies have shown that activation of the signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 ( STAT5 ) plays an essential role in leukemogenesis mediated through constitutive activated protein tyrosine kinases ( PTK ) .
Twenty grafts without bone marrow were implanted as controls .
Histologic parameters ( primary and secondary bone trabecula , neovascularization , and bone marrow and connective tissue formation ) were compared between 4 - and 16 - week groups . More rapid decrease in defect size was observed in groups 3 and 4 than in groups 1 and 2 , both in the 4th and 16th weeks .
In contrast , MMP - 9 expression was higher in stage III - IV NSCLC cases compared to stage I - II tumors ( p < 0 . 05 ) and higher in NSCLC cases with metastasis than those without metastasis ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
Of all the secretory products of mast cells tested , only heparin stimulated capillary endothelial cell migration in vitro .
In contrast , doxorubicin treatment of mutant ( mut ) p53 cells ( EU - 6 / ALL line ) up - regulated survivin and induced G ( 2 ) / M arrest without inducing apoptosis .
Ovarian cancers overexpress the antimicrobial protein hCAP - 18 and its derivative LL - 37 increases ovarian cancer cell proliferation and invasion .
Infection with retroviruses containing transforming genes of the src and ras oncogene families led to rapid loss of epidermal growth factor dependence , in some cases , accompanied by alterations in cellular morphology .
The results imply that various different proteins may lead to HCC metastasis together .
T - cell lines established from human T - cell leukemia - lymphoma virus associated T - cell neoplasias , in contrast to the T - cell acute lymphocytic leukemia cell lines , expressed both DR antigens and DR alpha mRNA ; the HpaII sites within the BglII fragment of DR alpha DNA of these human T - cell leukemia - lymphoma virus - positive T - cell lines were in all cases at least partially unmethylated .
In vitro wound migration and single - cell motility by PECAM - 1 - null endothelial cells were also compromised .
In conclusion , sorafenib administration induced autophagosome formation and enhanced autophagic activity , which conferred a survival advantage to hepatoma cells .
MTSS1 : a multifunctional protein and its role in cancer invasion and metastasis .
Interestingly , the human B - lymphoblastoid cell line SKW6 . 4 , a prototype for mitochondria - independent death receptor - induced apoptosis , was also sensitized to anti - CD95 and TRAIL - induced apoptosis under glucose - free conditions .
The TGF - beta type II receptor in chronic myeloid leukemia : analysis of microsatellite regions and gene expression .
The interaction of neoplastic cells with the extracellular matrix is a critical event for the initiation of cancer invasion and metastasis .
Interestingly , in CaSki cells , which were more suggestive of a resistant phenotype , paclitaxel induced the activation of mTOR as a downstream target of Akt .
The p16 / Rb / E2F pathway is the most frequent target of genetic alterations in gliomas , and therefore constitutes a suitable target for gene therapy strategies .
The relative resistance of PC - 3 cells to drug - induced apoptosis was associated with constitutive Akt activation , higher levels of cFLIP - L and Bcl - 2 , and lower levels of Bax .
Down - regulation of Mcl - 1 resulted in an increase in Mcl - 1 - free Bim , activation of Bax , and then signaling of mitochondria - mediated apoptosis .
Differential diagnosis for synchronous primary ovarian and endometrial cancers and metastatic cancer .
The largely restricted CCL16 expression in the liver suggests that this chemokine may play a role in hepatic vascular formation during development and in angiogenesis associated to hepatic diseases .
METHODS : Transplant tumor model was induced by subcutaneous inoculation of 2 x 10 ( 6 ) Lewis lung cancer ( LLC ) cells into the back of C57BL / 6 mice .
Thus , UV - induced Erbb2 activation increases skin tumorigenesis through inhibitory phosphorylation of Chk1 , Cdc25a maintenance , and suppression of S - phase arrest via a PI3K / Akt - dependent mechanism .
p63 - positive carcinomas were poorly differentiated , hormone receptor - negative neoplasms with a high proliferation rate .
Regulation of the composition of the extracellular matrix by low density lipoprotein receptor - related protein - 1 : activities based on regulation of mRNA expression .
Angiogenesis is a fundamental process to normal and abnormal tissue growth and repair , which consists of recruiting endothelial cells toward an angiogenic stimulus .
Tumors of H4 cells were well perfused , unlike tumors of H5 cells which were highly necrotic .
The nucleotide sequence of the cDNA was shown to be identical to that of the 3 ' untranslated region of a putative mammalian polycomb group gene , mel - 18 .
No alteration was detected in either of these regions in any phase of the disease .
Relationship between of blood flow , glucose metabolism , protein synthesis , glucose and ATP content in experimentally - induced glioma ( RG1 2 . 2 ) of rat brain .
This event is independent of fibrin formation .
The efficacy of the approach may be critically dependent on the intrinsic susceptibility to apoptosis of different tumors .
Through this domain , Evi - 1 physically interacts with Smad3 , an intracellular mediator of TGF - beta signaling , thereby suppressing the transcriptional activity of Smad3 .
The Akt / mTOR pathway assures the synthesis of HIF - 1alpha protein in a glucose - and reoxygenation - dependent manner in irradiated tumors .
Both were positive for HIF - 1alpha and phosphorylated c - Myc , and only one was positive for pAkt .
The present work supports and extends the finding of previous studies , since the results showed that the glucose metabolism depressed the oxidative processes in Ehrlich ascites tumor mitochondria , not only alone , but also in the presence of glutamine .
In contrast , there was no association between the expression of AP - 2alpha or AP - 2beta and the level of ErbB - 3 , or between AP - 2alpha and AP - 2gamma double positivity and ErbB - 3 expression .
Glucose metabolism was studied using an ECAT EXACT 47 positron emission tomography ( PET ) camera and fluorine - 18 fluorodeoxyglucose ( 18F - FDG ) ; 123I - IMT uptake was measured with the triple - headed single - photon emission tomography ( SPET ) camera , MULTISPECT 3 .
CONCLUSION : The low expression or absence of stromal SPARC was an independent prognostic factor for poor prognosis of colon cancer .
Treatment of K562 cells with tunicamycin for 18 h , resulted in extensive loss of the 50 - 60 kDa glycoprotein , appearance of a 30 - 40 kDa band and increased staining of a 45 kDa band .
Mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) activities were investigated to explore the mechanism of this induction .
To understand the biologic mechanisms of this extremely effective response , we compared by microarray the gene - expression profile of patients ' biopsies taken before and after radiation .
It is a safe mode of therapy , but further studies are required to establish its efficacy and to ascertain which diabetic patients and wounds will benefit the most from it .
In addition , detailed metabolic assessment of these MEFs confirmed their dependence on glycolysis , and an elevated rate of lactate efflux , associated with the upregulation of glycolytic enzymes known to be associated with tumorigenesis .
The increased energy expended by the host to synthesize substrate , which is utilized by the tumor , is a potential cause of cancer cachexia .
Analysis of the intratumoral vascular architecture revealed no major differences in microvessel density and perfusion characteristics .
A perifusion system was designed in order to study glucose and glutamine metabolism by freshly harvested Ehrlich ascites tumour cells in steady state conditions .
In patients with pancreatic carcinoma , the levels of fibrinogen in the group with jaundice were significantly higher than in patients without jaundice ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
We further show that down - regulation of caspase 3 via overexpression of RASSF1C reduces breast cancer cells ' sensitivity to the apoptosis inducing agent , etoposide .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : The tissues were stained with monoclonal antibodies to EGFR , TGF - alpha and Ki - 67 .
These chemicals differ from the direct - acting mutagens tested previously .
This phenomenon occurs at mast cell / tumor ratios which reflect the stoichiometry of host cell / tumor relationships in vivo .
RESULTS : Serum nitrite levels were significantly lower in L - NIL groups ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
Immunohistochemically stained sections of tumour were allocated a score for stain intensity and results correlated to : survival ; tumour stage ( T ) ; nodal stage ( N ) ; stage grouping ( I to IIIb ) , survival status and sex .
Our aim was to investigate the role of tumor lymphangiogenesis during metastasis .
Loss of opticin expression by this tissue is associated with and could contribute towards neoplastic transformation .
When the patients were divided into two groups according to their alpha - SMA expression using a cutoff point at the mean value of 8 . 48 % , the high alpha - SMA group had a significantly poorer overall survival rate ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
Inhibition of glucose metabolism enhanced killing of myeloid leukemia U937 , cervical carcinoma HeLa , and breast carcinoma MCF - 7 cells upon death receptor ligation .
These HCC cell lines had a similar genetic background but with an increasing potential of metastasis .
Transforming alleles of Notch direct the expression of truncated proteins that primarily consist of N ( ic ) and are not tethered to the plasma membrane .
AVE8062 : a new combretastatin derivative vascular disrupting agent .
It has a mitogenic activity for MEF cells , as demonstrated by an immediate induction of cell doubling time .
Brn - 3a , a member of the POU gene family ( so - called because of the similarity with the group of transcription factors Pit , Oct , and Unc ) , was found in neuronal cells engaged in the transcription activity of the p1 and p2 promoters of the most powerful antiapoptotic gene , namely , Bcl - 2 .
Fractional tumor growth was determined and immunohistochemical analysis of tumors was used to determine degree of angiogenesis .
RESULTS : In comparison with controls , intratumoral injection of Ad - mEndostatin significantly inhibited the tumor growth and metastasis , and prolonged the survival rate of mice ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
We also observed an overlap between C / EBPbeta and COX - 2 expression in GC .
METHODS : Tissues samples were taken from 60 patients with esophageal SCC after surgery .
In contrast to CYR61 and CTGF , no significant association was found between expression of either WISP - 1 or NOV versus any of the pathological features .
There was , furthermore , no correlation between the heterogeneity of nm23 - H1 gene product expression and the patients survival .
The quaternary benzo [ c ] phenanthridine alkaloid sanguinarine inhibits the proliferation of cancerous cells from different origins , including lung , breast , pancreatic and colon , but nothing is known of its effects on osteosarcoma , a primary malignant bone tumour .
None of the epithelial cell lines induced foci in a focus formation assay .
Topo I expression was described as the percentage of cells staining positive for topo I , along with the intensity and localization of the staining .
The effects of radiation on neovascularization in a rat model .
Furthermore , the renal carcinoma cell lines expressed PAF - R .
In this study we examined the role of p24 proteins in insulin transport .
Targeting TNF for Treatment of Cancer and Autoimmunity .
In 3 months - old mice , pigmented cells were detected in spleen and inguinal lymph nodes .
[ Clinical significance of interleukin - 6 ( IL - 6 ) as a prognostic factor of cancer disease ]
Together , the data establish that acute ethanol exposure significantly impairs angiogenesis and suggest that this effect is mediated by changes in endothelial cell responsiveness to both VEGF and hypoxia .
Although PTHrP is frequently expressed by breast tumors and other solid cancers , its effects on tumor progression are unclear .
Administration of 317615 x 2HCl also increased the tumor growth delay produced by fractionated radiation therapy in the MX - 1 tumor .
It has also been demonstrated that MTSS1 is involved in the Shh signaling pathway in the developing hair follicle and in basal cell carcinomas of the skin .
FM - MSC or BM - MSC obtained from Lewis rats were injected into a MHC - mismatched August - Copenhagen - Irish rat model of hind limb ischemia .
Both levels of dietary CLA showed similar effects , with the number of RBC - containing vessels per 20x field decreased to a third of that seen in control .
CCL16 may be specifically cross - linked to CCR1 expressed on endothelial cells .
The data indicate that endosialin is strongly expressed by pericytes during periods of active angiogenesis during embryonic and tumor development .
Recombinant EBV containing LMP1 with TES2 deleted induces a limited proliferation of B cells .
Telomere / telomerase interplay in virus - driven and virus - independent lymphomagenesis : pathogenic and clinical implications .
This study indicated that urine IL - 8 / Cr levels might be useful as a diagnostic marker of NHL .
SPARC ( secreted protein , acidic , and rich in cysteine ) is a matrix - associated glycoprotein that modulates the adhesion and proliferation of vascular cells .
N - methyl - N - nitrosourea - induced transformation of rat urothelial cells in vitro is not mediated by activation of ras oncogenes .
VEGF , angiopoietin - 1 and - 2 in bronchial asthma : new molecular targets in airway angiogenesis and microvascular remodeling .
It is proposed that the switch from tumor suppressor to oncogene reflects genetic or epigenetic alterations in signaling pathways in tumor cells that alter the readout from the TGFbeta1 pathway .
Other anti - angiogenic therapies alter the immune response and endogeneous angiogenesis inhibitor levels .
Finally , an immunohistochemistry method ( Hypoxyprobe ) demonstrated that tissue hypoxia was present in the spleen and BM .
The process of angiogenesis is also thought to occur in response to ischaemic conditions , which lie at the core of cardiovascular disease states such as coronary artery disease and congestive heart failure .
The discovery that this gene is also frequently mutated in human leukemia has increased the interest in the role that RUNX1 plays in both normal and transforming pathways .
The low metastatic and G - 418 - resistant H - 3 cells were co - cultured with BALB / c3T3 fibroblasts for 2 - 4 weeks .
Consistent with these findings is the induction under hypoxic conditions of the HIF - 1 protein .
Acad .
Surprisingly , TSP - 2 expression was strongly upregulated in the mesenchymal stroma of wild - type mice throughout the consecutive stages of tumorigenesis whereas the angiogenesis factor , vascular endothelial growth factor , was induced predominantly in tumor cells .
Consistent with this hypothesis , co - injection of VPF / VEGF together with OPN resulted in rapid cleavage of OPN by endogenous thrombin .
3 - Chloromethylthiochromone - 1 , 1 - dioxide was observed to be a potent inhibitor of Ehrlich ascites carcinoma growth and a moderate inhibitor of P - 388 lymphocytic leukemia growth at 10 mg / kg / day .
MET expression is rarely detected in primary human melanoma but is frequently observed in metastatic disease .
The results of our current studies provide strong experimental evidence for the use of ciprofloxacin as a potential preventive and / or therapeutic agent for the management of transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder .
Furthermore , both PLD1 and PLD2 transformants , but not vector - transfectants , induced undifferentiated sarcoma when transplanted into nude mice .
Further , the inhibition of EGF binding by tumor promoters following long - term treatment of Swiss 3T3 cells with PDBu also varied with growth state .
Proteome analysis of NIH3T3 cells transformed by activated Galpha12 : regulation of leukemia - associated protein SET .
This action is not observed with uninfected CEF , and , therefore , appears to require some expression of the viral src gene in the target cells .
In an effort to dissect the mechanisms of GR - mediated breast epithelial cell survival , we now examine the molecular events downstream of GR activation .
These are exciting new functions of vitamins that nobody could have predicted only a few years ago .
In this work , we show that an 11 - amino acid peptide derived from the second immunoglobulin - like domain of Flt - 1 functions as an angiogenic inhibitor in chick chorioallantoic membrane and inhibited VEGF - induced vascular permeability in Miles ' assay without binding to VEGF directly .
( 1999 , Proc . Natl . Acad . Sci . USA 2645 - 2650 ) to inhibit endothelial cell proliferation and angiogenesis , both in vivo and in vitro , and to inhibit metastasis of a wide variety of tumors in vivo .
The apparent first - order rate constant for GSH decay increased progressively for L1210 cells expressing a range of GPX activities from approximately 5 % to 100 % , demonstrating that peroxide detoxification is strictly dependent on enzyme content .
Comparative NMR study of a differentiated rat hepatoma and its dedifferentiated subclone cultured as spheroids and as implanted tumors .
The present findings indicate that vandetanib therapy effectively counteracted the aggressive feature of tumor growth resulting from VEGF over - expressing tumor cells and suggest that such tumors may be particularly well suited for anti - VEGF interventions .
This review will focus on recent studies to define the molecular mechanisms for the antivascular actions of the MBDs , information that could be useful in the identification or design of agents whose actions more selectively target the tumor vasculature .
Curcumin also significantly decreased ( P < 0 . 05 ) the expression of uPA and NF - kappaB DNA binding activity , respectively .
Extracellular matrix as a bioactive material for soft tissue reconstruction .
However , the exact mechanisms of ARF action yet remain unclear and require further studies by different specialists at both the molecular genetic and other levels of investigation .
The efficacy of the antitumor activity of 1 ' - acetoxychavicol acetate ( ACA ) , reported to be a suppressor of chemically induced carcinogenesis , was evaluated in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells .
These results show that magnolol initiates apoptosis via the cytochrome - c / caspase 3 / PARP / AIF and PTEN / Akt / caspase 9 / PARP pathways and necrosis via PARP activation .
Roles of cell adhesion molecules mediating the interaction of cancer and endothelial cells in tumor angiogenesis were investigated using new in vitro and in vivo model systems with a cultured murine endothelial cell line ( F - 2 ) and human cultured epidermoid cancer cells ( A431 ) .
We have demonstrated recently that lactoferrin enhances the expression of a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor family , Fas , in the colon mucosa during both early and late stages of carcinogenesis .
Although extracellular signal - regulated protein kinase 1 / 2 ( ERK1 / 2 ) , c - Jun N - terminal kinase 1 ( JNK1 ) , and p38 were activated after denudation , the activation of ERK1 and p38 was more rapid and prominent .
In addition , we found down - regulation of cyclin B , cyclin E , and dephosphorylation of cdk2 in ciprofloxacin - treated bladder tumor cells .
c - erb B2 overexpression decreases the benefit of adjuvant tamoxifen in early - stage breast cancer without axillary lymph node metastases .
Although 5 - FU is often used for the treatment of oral carcinoma , there has not been any investigation into the expression of these enzymes in metastatic lymph nodes or of their roles in the effectiveness of 5 - FU in treating lymph node - metastatic cancer .
Heparin immobilized porous PLGA microspheres for angiogenic growth factor delivery .
The finding of differential SSTR expression raises the potential for SSTR expression to be evaluated as a marker of response to somatostatin analogs .
Commonality exists in the processes involved in vasculature development between tissues whether healthy or diseased .
An anti - IL - 8 Ab inhibited endothelial cell proliferation induced by cancer cell produced IL - 8 and tumors with low IL - 8 levels exhibited decreased angiogenesis .
Thus , angiogenesis is a physiologic event in normal postnatal murine skin , apparently is dictated by the hair follicle , and appears to be required for normal anagen development .
Phospholipase D ( PLD ) has been suggested to play an important role in a variety of cellular functions .
In cultured cells , this molecule is physically associated with focal adhesions , which are well - defined regions of intimate cell - to - substratum adhesion .
p21 delays tumor onset by preservation of chromosomal stability .
This sensitization did not occur when T251 - 708 was targeted to the nucleus by inclusion of the SV40 nuclear localization signal .
IL - 17F ablation decreased IL - 1beta and Cox - 2 expression as well as IL - 17 receptor C ( IL - 17RC ) expression , which were increased in tumors from Apc ( Min / + ) mice .
However , sVAP - 1 expression has not been described for gastric cancer .
By SAGE ( serial analysis of gene expression ) analysis , we identified final sigma as a gene whose expression is 7 - fold lower in breast carcinoma cells than in normal breast epithelium .
The mutant which retains only the central region of the v - fos protein ( Met111 - Ile206 ) have both activities , but the mutants which have deletions in this region , and one of the mutants that has a four amino acid insertion in it , lost both activities .
Notably , the activation of BMPRII by BMP - 2 is required for modulation of Smad activation by NF - kappaB in PC cells .
FGFR1 and FGFR2 were present on explants .
Inhibition of NO synthase reduces tumour growth both after systemic and regional ( ILP ) treatment .
Angiogenic stimulation was macroscopically detectable , with engulfment of the samples , in 39 % and was evidenced by angiography in 59 % of the samples .
In this regard , inhibitors of these pathways have been shown to be effective antitumoral agents .
These data provide the first demonstration of IGF - I / II expression in the human lung in early gestation and indicate that the IGF family of growth factors , acting through the IGF - IR , is required as a survival factor during normal human lung vascularization .
In conclusion , aspirin and nimesulide could inhibit cell proliferation and induce apoptosis in esophageal squamous carcinoma cells .
Using tamoxifen and doxorubicin - sensitive and - resistant breast cancer cell lines as models , we found that doxorubicin - but not tamoxifen - resistance is associated with nuclear accumulation of FOXO3a , consistent with the finding that sustained nuclear FOXO3a is associated with poor prognosis .
We investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying NRP1 - mediated angiogenesis by analyzing the association of NRP1 and KDR .
Promoter region hypermethylation was significantly more common ( P < 0 . 008 ) in breast and ovarian cancer ( 6 / 38 tumours methylated ) than in colon cancer ( 0 / 35 tumours methylated ) or in leukaemias ( 0 / 19 samples methylated ) .
Radiation significantly affected DMBA - associated vascular volume and permeability changes during carcinogenesis .
Although we cannot reveal any statistical difference between these 2 substances considering osteoinductive potential , PRP group has demonstrated superior results compared with fibrin glue group .
Differential mechanisms of radiosensitization by 2 - deoxy - D - glucose in the monolayers and multicellular spheroids of a human glioma cell line .
To investigate the dose - dependent effects of APC protein in suppressing intestinal tumorigenesis , we constructed mutant mice carrying hypomorphic Apc alleles Apc ( neoR ) and Apc ( neoF ) whose expression levels were reduced to 20 % and 10 % of the wild type , respectively .
The data presented here demonstrate that transcriptional activation of cyclin D1 can oncogenically transform B - cells in concert with a myc gene .
The update information testifies about protumoral activity of neutrophils : they migrate to a tumor and promote angiogenesis and metastasis at late stages of the tumor .
RESULTS : ITCs were observed in peripheral blood and bone marrow even in early stages of gastric cancer .
After inhibition of gluconeogenesis , the plasma glucose decreased and the blood lactate increased significantly more in TB than NTB animals .
WIT003 , as well as pure 20 - HETE , stimulated EC proliferation by approximately 40 % .
Hypoxia - inducible factor 1 ( HIF - 1 ) activates vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) gene expression in hypoxic / ischemic tissue .
The feasibility of such a strategy has now been established through the results of studies over the past decade , and a new discipline called therapeutic angiogenesis has emerged .
Mechanisms responsible for hyperinvasiveness and resistance to anti - invasive action of TGFbeta .
Whereas agents seem promising in the test tube , clinical trials often fail due to unfavorable pharmacokinetics , poor delivery , low local concentrations , and limited accumulation in the target cell .
p53 up - regulation and p53 - mediated proliferation arrest and apoptosis were substantiated using immunohistochemistry , with activation of both the intrinsic and the extrinsic apoptotic pathways .
Only one eye received a second PDT treatment due to choroidal neovascularization .
In a multivariate analysis D2 - 40 + was the strongest predictor for ALNM with an odds ratio of 3 . 489 and a P - value of P = 0 . 0003 , followed only by T - stage and grading with odds ratios of 3 . 167 and 1 . 953 and P - values P = 0 . 0003 and P = 0 . 0352 .
The hybrid cells , however , exhibited normal morphology , anchorage requirement for proliferation , and largely extended latency periods of tumorigenicity in newborn rats .
RAF265 also inhibited FDG accumulation in tumor xenografts after 1 day of drug treatment .
METHODS : Ninety diabetic patients with chronic total occlusion in at least one major epicardial coronary artery were enrolled in the study .
This suggests that the activity of topo I inhibitors will not differ across various tumor stages , pathology , and patient gender .
Down - regulation of collagen XII in transformed mesenchymal cells .
In a three - dimensional model of breast carcinogenesis , disorganized , proliferative transformed breast epithelial cells express significantly higher expression of angiogenic genes compared with their polarized , growth - arrested nonmalignant counterparts .
Prior to this cellular outcome , FOXO3a is functionally activated and mediates a large - scale transcription program in response to this damage involving a significant modulation of 440 genes .
I .
Overexpression of Bax inhibitor - 1 ( BI - 1 ) induces cell transformation in NIH3T3 cells .
A clone of NIH3T3 transformant ( H - 3 ) , obtained by transfecting genomic DNA of a human colon carcinoma cell line , contains human K - ras oncogene and yields metastatic pulmonary nodules after intravenous injection of the cells into nude mice .
Although some recent reports suggest that microvessel counts in non - small cell lung cancer are related to a poor disease outcome , the results were not conclusive and were not compared with other molecular prognostic markers .
Both PLD1 - and PLD2 - mediated cell cycle distributions in stable cell lines revealed an increased fraction of cells in the S phase compared with control cells .
Also , rk - 2 diminished the expression of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 in the mouse lung which induces tumor metastasis and angiogenesis .
The enhancing factors are proteins related to the family of the transforming growth factors ( TGFs ) by their molecular weight ( about 20 kd ) , their heat and acid resistance , and their sensitivity to dithiothreitol .
Together these findings establish Wnt signaling as a metastasis regulator in melanoma .
Here we show that expression of TEL in Ras - transformed NIH 3T3 cells inhibits cell growth in soft agar and in normal cultures .
Our data suggest that low oxygen upregulates FGFR1 expression in embryonic aorta in vitro and renders it more responsive to FGF2 .
Juice and peels , for example , possess potent antioxidant properties , while juice , peel and oil are all weakly estrogenic and heuristically of interest for the treatment of menopausal symptoms and sequellae .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : In the present study , we investigated the effects of 2ME2 alone and in combination with paclitaxel , an active agent in recurrent or advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
AMI control group received equal volume physiological saline .
In addition , PPARgamma protein was not detected in all of the eight carcinomas in which COX - 2 protein was detected , suggesting that expression of PPARgamma and COX - 2 was in a reciprocal relationship .
Like in Apc ( Delta716 ) mice , loss of the wild - type Apc allele was confirmed for all polyps examined in the Apc ( neoR ) and Apc ( neoF ) mice .
Vinculin staining showed that the leading edge of ECs on 15 - microm wide strips had focal adhesions that were oriented with their lamellipodial protrusion and the direction of cell migration ; this arrangement of the focal adhesions may promote EC migration .
Thus , in 5T4 - transfected CL - S1 murine mammary cells , 5T4 expression is associated with dendritic morphology , accompanied by abrogation of actin / cadherin - containing contacts and increased motility .
The aim of this study was the assessment of correlations among proteins involved in apoptosis - Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 - as well as relationships of these proteins with selected clinicopathological features in oral squamous cell carcinoma .
These observations provide evidence that enhanced proliferation in N - ras - transformed cells compromises teratocarcinoma cell differentiation by a mechanism that transiently suppresses homeobox gene induction and implies a central role for homeobox genes in RA - induced cell differentiation .
Extensive regulation contributes to normal growth control , abrogation of regulatory controls contributes to uncontrolled growth as seen with erb B transformation and EGF receptor gene amplification in human tumors .
It is also expressed by many types of tumour cell and has been associated with metastasis and poor clinical outcome in a number of cancers .
Similar to in vivo FdG - PET or primary breast cancers , rates of glycolysis were diverse , being higher in cells expressing both c - Myc and HIF - 1alpha and lower in cell lines low or negative in both transcription factors .
Nicked { beta } 2 - glycoprotein I binds angiostatin 4 . 5 ( plasminogen kringle 1 - 5 ) and attenuates its antiangiogenic property .
Intriguingly , two recent papers have shed new light into this unexplored field , indicating that p53 plays a key role in TGF - beta - induced growth arrest and , unexpectedly , in the developmental effects of TGF - beta in early embryos .
These results show that STX243 is a potent in vivo drug and could be clinically effective at treating a number of oncological conditions .
In addition , the hypothesis predicts that early detection , which is designed to find more patients without involved lymph nodes , may not be a synergistic strategy with adjuvant chemotherapy , which works best with positive lymph node patients .
Use of DNA microarray and small animal positron emission tomography in preclinical drug evaluation of RAF265 , a novel B - Raf / VEGFR - 2 inhibitor .
In the current study , the impact of VEGF expression on the response of tumors to the VEGFR2 associated tyrosine kinase inhibitor vandetanib was evaluated .
Clinical , laboratory , histopathological , and pharmacological evidence support the notion that the coagulation system , which is activated in most cancer patients , plays an important role in tumor biology .
Moreover , SMI496 caused cell retraction and cytoskeletal collapse of endothelial cells as well as delayed endothelial cell wound healing .
PP mesh resulted in more fibrous encapsulation and stiffness than PF and PS prostheses .
Furthermore , the effects of a selective NF - kappaB inhibitor , NEMO - binding domain ( NBD ) peptide , on metastasis in GSAS / N5 - engrafted mice were assessed , and engrafted tongue tumors were immunohistochemically examined .
RESULTS : The average fibrinogen levels in patients with pancreatic carcinoma , ( 476 . 21 + / - 142 . 05 ) mg / dl , were significantly higher than in patients with cholangiolithiasis , ( 403 . 28 + / - 126 . 41 ) mg / dl ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
BACKGROUND : Aberrant angiogenesis is a landmark feature in cancer , which is important for proliferation , growth and metastasis , and is mediated by various pro - angiogenic factors .
For detecting the mechanism of apoptosis induced by docetaxel - ATRA combination , OligoGeArray which consists of 112 apoptosis related genes was used .
Protein kinase C levels in several transformed cell lines were subject to down modulation in a similar growth state - dependent manner .
Our in vitro studies showed that NIH3T3 cells overexpressing BI - 1 displayed a significantly higher growth rate and formed more and larger colonies than the control cells .
Expression of G45 or activated PI3K subunit in DeltaG45 cells reversed these abnormalities .
In this review focus will be on OPN in bone and its role in adhesion , migration and cell survival .
Combination therapy was more effective , and completely eliminated tumor in 4 of 12 IFN - GM - CSF and 8 of 11 IFN - IL - 2 animals .
In the 380 patients who were ITC negative and showed low VEGFR - 1 expression , synchronous ( at the time of surgery ) and heterochronous ( recurrent ) metastases were not observed .
The paper reviews the data available in the literature on a role of the tumor suppressor ARF in oncogenesis and considers the structure of a gene encoding ARF protein .
Thus , tumors behave like wounds that fail to heal .
From one of the revertants , we recovered a 0 . 2 - kb cDNA , N56 , that suppresses the tumor growth of the transformed 3Y1 cells irrespective of the expression of the E6 and E7 genes .
These studies indicate that Shh peptide produced by melanoma cells induces Patched expression in fibroblasts .
Basic fibroblast growth factor : a missing link between collagen VII , increased collagenase , and squamous cell carcinoma in recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa .
The frequency of ITC in bone marrow was significantly associated with the stage of disease by ANOVA ( P < 0 . 01 ) .
Cells treated with anti - Fas also exhibited increased tyrosine phosphorylation of the c - met growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase .
No AP - 1 expression was found 19 weeks after initiation .
A low - Km , mitochondrial type II - like tumor HK is described as the predominant form in hepatomas .
RESULT : The average IMVD was ( 21 . 50 + / - 8 . 87 ) , and median of AI was 1 . 15 % .
U - 995 is composed of two single peptides with molecular mass of 10 and 14 kDa , respectively .
Positron emission tomography in a case of intracranial hemangiopericytoma .
The results showed that expression levels of both nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 mRNA varied in normal buccal mucosa , leukoplakia , adjacent nontumorous mucosa , submandibular gland , CBM and lymph nodes with or without metastasis .
The cohort examined was relatively small and with larger patient numbers , MDM2 overexpression may emerge as a more significant covariate .
p - XSC effectively inhibits AR expression and transcriptional activity in both cell lines .
Tumor size was measured every 3 days .
In a third approach , cancer cells are induced to die by both apoptotic and necrotic events .
RESULTS : The maximum tolerated dose of galectin - 3C in nude mice was determined to be > 125 mg / kg without overt adverse effects .
AIM : To determine whether a variety of ciliary body tumours synthesise opticin to characterise further its role in ciliary body health and disease .
RESULTS : VEGF - C expression was higher in lymphatic metastasis group ( PI = 12 . 169 + / - 2 . 778 ) than in no - metastasis group ( PI = 8 . 498 + / - 2 . 674 , P < 0 . 05 ) .
These results indicate that Pbx1 is a target gene of Evi - 1 involved in Evi - 1 - mediated leukemogenesis .
Reciprocal bone marrow transplants that involved both wild - type and PECAM - 1 - deficient mice revealed that the impaired angiogenic response resulted from a loss of endothelial , but not leukocyte , PECAM - 1 .
Insulin treatment also increased VEGF protein levels in conditioned RPE cell media in a dose - dependent manner with a median effective concentration of 5 nM .
Metastatic spread of malignant tumor appears to correlate with activation of the fibrolytic system .
Docetaxel has proved to be a first line treatment choice .
These results suggest that SWAP - 70 may be required for oncogenic transformation and contributes to cell growth in MEFs transformed by v - Src .
PD98059 , a specific MAPK / ERK kinase ( MEK ) 1 inhibitor , did not affect the induction of ets - 1 mRNA , whereas SB203580 , a specific p38 inhibitor , almost completely abrogated its induction .
Growth factor mRNA expression analyses revealed a higher expression of angiopoietin 2 in low - grade CC - RCC .
In this study we separated weakly acidic phenolic components from other neutral , acidic and basic components of tobacco smoke condensate ( TSC ) and observed that phenolic fraction of TSC significantly increased the number of colonies of promotion - sensitive JB6 Cl41 cells that showed anchorage - independent growth on soft agar in response to BPDE ( an ultimate carcinogen produced by metabolic activation of the PAH benzo [ a ] pyrene ) .
Research on age - related impaired wound healing suggests that the decline in sex steroid hormones with age may have a substantial influence on the inflammatory response in vivo .
OPN promoted EC migration in vitro ; and VPF / VEGF induction of alphavbeta3 was accompanied by increased EC migration toward OPN .
The inhibition of tumor growth and changes of survival were recorded and the microvessel density ( MVD ) was determined by histochemical stainingwith CD31 and CD105 antibodies .
2 - BE is a hemolytic agent that induces hemangiosarcomas in mice .
14 - 3 - 3zeta Overexpression and abnormal beta - catenin expression are associated with poor differentiation and progression in stage I non - small cell lung cancer .
RESULTS : Overexpression of MDM2 by manual counts was seen in 44 % ( n = 47 ) of the patients .
Thrombospondins , metallo proteases and thrombospondin receptors messenger RNA and protein expression in different tumour sublines of the Dunning prostate cancer model .
Main outcome measures included best corrected visual acuity , ophthalmic examination , retinal photography , and angiography .
New bone formation was detected to be more rapid considering histologic parameters , in groups 3 and 4 at 4th and 16th weeks . Study demonstrates that PRP and PPP might have favorable effects on bone healing .
Recent connections between glucose metabolism and resistance to apoptosis provide a compelling rationale for targeting metabolic changes in cancer .
Another cell adhesion protein , beta 1 - integrin was not affected by E - cadherin expression .
Extensive research , however , has revealed that TNF - alpha is one of the major players in tumor initiation , proliferation , invasion , angiogenesis and metastasis .
The stromal cells in turn produce factors that nurture the tumor .
Low density lipoprotein receptor - related protein - 1 ( LRP - 1 ) is a catabolic receptor for extracellular matrix ( ECM ) structural proteins and for proteins that bind to ECM .
ECs on 15 - microm wide strips had highest speed , particularly in the direction of the strip .
In vitro studies found that exposure to Cum - OOH reduced the level of glutathione ( GSH ) in mouse epidermal cells ( JB6 P + ) and caused the induction of AP - 1 .
The ' angiostatic ' steroids 17 hydroxyprogesterone and epicortisol were tested because of their lack of glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid effects and their structural similarity to glucocorticoids .
Previously we observed that neural cell adhesion molecule ( NCAM ) deficiency in beta tumor cells facilitates metastasis into distant organs and local lymph nodes .
Expression of two type II - like tumor hexokinase RNA transcripts in cancer cell lines .
Short pigment epithelial - derived factor - derived peptide inhibits angiogenesis and tumor growth .
Cancer 2010 .
Yet , the net outcome of Ang - 2 functions on tumor angiogenesis is believed to be contextual depending on the local cytokine milieu .
However , DMI inhibited FA - induced , GR - mediated transcription when both agents were given together .
Activated platelets enhance SKOV3 human ovarian cancer cell invasion through Matrigel and increase the amount of uPA and VEGF secreted into SKOV3 cell conditioned medium .
BACKGROUND : The effects of a rectified semi - sinewave signal ( 15 mT amplitude , 120 pulses per second , EMF Therapeutics , Inc . ) ( TEMF ) alone and in combination with gamma irradiation ( IR ) therapy in nude mice bearing a human MDA MB231 breast cancer xenograft were tested .
Impaired coronary collateral vessel development in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy .
Four weeks after cell transplantation , reverse transcriptase - polymerase chain reaction ( RT - PCR ) and immunohistochemistry for vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , VIII - factor immunohistochemistry for vessel density , TUNEL , caspase - 3 for cardiomyocyte apoptosis , echocardiography and hemodynamic detection for heart function were performed .
Endothelialisation and platelet adhesion to purified endothelial cell - derived perlecan , the major heparan sulfate ( HS ) proteoglycan in basement membranes , were investigated using in vivo and in vitro assays .
Integrin alphavbeta3 requirement for sustained mitogen - activated protein kinase activity during angiogenesis .
BACKGROUND : The PI3K - Akt signal pathway plays a key role in tumorigenesis and the development of drug - resistance .
The data support the concept that a positive relationship exists between the density of blood vessels and the formation of bone .
In in vitro study , honokiol inhibited VEGF - D - induced survival , proliferation and tube - formation of both human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) and lymphatic vascular endothelial cells ( HLECs ) .
The 5T4 antigen is defined by a monoclonal antibody ( MAb ) specific for human trophoblast .
OBJECTIVES : Strategies to inhibit the VEGF pathway , including antibodies to VEGF , antibodies to the extracellular domain of VEGFR - 1 or VEGFR - 2 , decoy receptors for VEGF and tyrosine kinase inhibitors of VEGFRs , are summarized .
Here we describe a 185 - kDa tandem duplication mutant ( TDM ) that is expressed in KE and A - 1235 glioma cells , along with certain functional characteristics of the mutants .
Conversely , tumor cell expression of NCAM in a fibrosarcoma model ( T241 ) improved pericyte recruitment and increased perivascular deposition of ECM molecules .
Invasion assay and migration assay showed that the invasion and migration of CNE1 - GL cell were higher than those of CNE1 cells ( P < 0 . 01 ) .
Treatment with all - trans - RA decreased the level of these enzymes in the cellular , cell membrane , and conditioned medium compartments . ( ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS )
We have modelled multiple stages of malignant transformation of human endothelial cells ( ECs ) by overexpressing the catalytic subunit of human telomerase ( hTERT ) , together with SV40 T antigen ( SV40T ) and oncogenic N - ras .
One such agent , 3 - bromopyruvate ( 3 - BrPA ) , a lactic acid analog , has been shown to inhibit both glycolytic and mitochondrial ATP production in rapidly growing cancers ( Ko et al . , Cancer Letts . , 173 , 83 - 91 , 2001 ) , leave normal cells alone , and eradicate advanced cancers ( 19 of 19 ) in a rodent model ( Ko et al . , Biochem . Biophys . Res . Commun . , 324 , 269 - 275 , 2004 ) .
In these breast cancers activated Akt fails to inactivate and re - localize FOXO3a to the cytoplasm , and nuclear - targeted FOXO3a does not induce cell death or cell cycle arrest .
Under these conditions , 2 - DG drastically enhanced the radiation - induced cell death of spheroids ( by 2 - 3 folds ) ; while a 40 % increase was observed in monolayer cells .
Similar results were also obtained with respect to 5 - FU .
These activities provide an explanation for the angiogenic properties of EGF in vivo .
In DNA from the T - cells not expressing DR alpha mRNA , all of the potential HpaII sites within the BglII fragment appeared to be methylated .
These TGF - beta - resistant cells also exhibited progressively increasing levels of expression of the c - fos and and myc mRNA , and increased resistance to the cytotoxicity of Adriamycin and melphalan .
We hypothesized that Erbb2 activation contributes to UV - induced skin tumorigenesis by suppressing cell cycle arrest .
Angiostatin and thalidomide both inhibited tumor growth by about 55 % .
Treatment of wild - type ( wt ) p53 ALL cells ( EU - 3 cell line ) with doxorubicin caused accumulation of p53 , resulting in dramatic down - regulation of survivin , depletion of cells in G ( 2 ) / M , and apoptosis ( increased sub - G ( 1 ) compartment ) .
The E2F - 1 protein is able to induce generalized apoptosis in gliomas independently of the p53 , p16 or Rb status .
Moreover , the M2 - PK - binding peptide aptamers also reduced the proliferation rate of human U - 2 OS osteosarcoma cells .
In cultured stable Grm1 - mouse - melanocytic clones , as well as an metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 ( Grm1 ) expressing human melanoma cell line , C8161 , stimulation of Grm1 by its agonist led to the activation of AKT , while preincubation with Grm1 - antagonist abolished Grm1 - agonist - induced AKT activation .
Importantly , HMGA2 partially replaces the function of hTERT during the tumorigenic transformation of normal human fibroblasts .
Treatment with the antiangiogenic reagent TNP - 470 suppressed postoperative progression of pulmonary metastasis .
Collectively , the experiments define the role of Ang - 2 during tumor angiogenesis and establish a better rationale for combination therapies involving Ang - 2 manipulatory therapies .
The result of double staining indicated that macrophage with positive VEGF - C expression accounted for about 22 . 8 % of the total .
Our results indicate that the nuclear phosphatase activity is inhibited by greater than 50 % in Galpha ( 12 ) QL cells compared to vector control cells .
Because thrombin cleavage of OPN results in substantial enhancement of OPN ' s adhesive properties , and because VPF / VEGF promotes increased microvascular permeability leading to activation of the extrinsic coagulation pathway , we also investigated whether VPF / VEGF facilitates thrombin cleavage of OPN in vivo .
Other normal tissues can also stimulate angiogenesis , but the type of cell giving rise to the angiogenic stimulus is unknown , and the period of angiogenic stimulation is brief .
Bone marrow with its unique native properties produced autocrine angiogenicity in the graft .
The vascular insulin - like growth factor ( IGF ) - 1 system includes the IGFs , the IGF - 1 receptor ( IGF - 1R ) , and multiple binding proteins .
Nonidet P - 40 had no effect on glycolysis in cell - free extracts from Ehrlich ascites tumor cells to which soluble mitochondrial ATPase was added .
Gene expression data from bone marrow ( BM ) , liver , and spleen of mice exposed to a single dose ( 4 h ) or seven daily doses of 2 - BE were used to develop a mechanistic model of hemangiosarcoma .
In epithelial cells , EphA2 and E - cadherin co - localize to sites of cell - cell contact , and it has been shown that E - cadherin regulates EphA2 .
p53 is a protein with many talents .
Correlation with clinico - pathological factors including LVI as retrieved by routine haematoxylin and eosin ( H . E . ) stained sections and the eligibility for the prediction of ALNM was assessed .
Mice that received either IR or TEMF had significantly fewer lung metastatic sites and slower tumor growth than did untreated mice .
SREBP activation decreased as ECs migration slowed ; ( 2 ) Coincidental with SREBP activation , mRNA expression of its target genes such as low density lipoprotein receptor , HMG - CoA reductase , and fatty acid synthase also increased in migrating ECs population as detected by real - time PCR ; ( 3 ) Migration induced SREBP activation in ECs was inhibited by SREBP - acting protein RNAi and pharmacologically by 25 - hydroxycholesterol ; ( 4 ) Inhibition of SREBP led to decreased ECs migration in various models ; ( 5 ) Cells genetically deficient in SREBP - acting protein , S1P , or S2P , phenotypically exhibited impaired migration ; ( 6 ) SREBP inhibition in ECs suppressed the activity of small GTPase Cdc42 , a key molecule for ECs motility .
Four out of seven control grafts were patent with endothelial cell lining at six months , but three were occluded and one of the four grafts was still covered with a thrombus layer .
These results show that CX3CR1 - dependent accumulation of subretinal MCs evokes cardinal features of AMD .
The Kaposi ' s sarcoma - associated herpesvirus ( KSHV ) encodes a G protein - coupled receptor ( vGPCR ) that has been implicated in the initiation of Kaposi ' s sarcoma , identifying vGPCR as an attractive target for preventing Kaposi ' s sarcoma .
Furthermore , infected cells evince a marked upregulation of the EBNA genes .
Transformation of primary cells in cultures requires both overcoming growth arrest by stimulating the cell cycle and blocking cell death activities presumably activated by oncogene - mediated hyperproliferation signals .
This Review will discuss the rationale for using antiangiogenic compounds and will focus on large molecules , such as antibodies , that target the VEGF system .
Human cytomegalovirus elevates levels of the cellular protein p53 in infected fibroblasts .
As predicted , these MEFs upregulated Hif - 1alpha and HIF target genes directly as a result of FH deficiency .
Apoptosis is a regulated form of cell death that may be triggered by natural killer ( NK ) or cytotoxic T cells , which effect target cell lysis by cytolytic effector and related proteins through complex intracellular signals .
In the present study , the authors used molecular techniques to analyze the clonal composition of five cases of concurrent adenocarcinomas of the endometrium and ovary that were clinicopathologically diagnosed as synchronous primary tumors .
The significance of the associations was determined using Spearman correlation analysis and the chi - square test .
However , it is not sufficient for the immortalization of MEF , and MEF - LMP1 ( TRADD ) cells eventually enter growth arrest .
Chicken embryo fibroblasts and hamster BHK cells transformed by Rous sarcoma virus ( RSV ) release in their culture media growth factors which enhance markedly anchorage - independent colony formation in gelified medium , at the restrictive temperature ( 41 degrees 5 C ) , of chicken embryo fibroblasts ( CEF ) infected by RSV mutants with a ts mutation of the src gene .
They code for proteins of 21 kDa , highly conserved in evolution , which belong to the superfamily of ras GTPases .
However , diameters of intratumoral microvessels were smaller in tumors grown in Ang - 2 - deficient mice , and the vasculature had an altered pattern of pericyte recruitment and maturation .
The following review describes key molecular mechanisms and novel therapies that are on the horizon for antiangiogenic tumor therapy .
Hypoxic tumor cells distant from blood vessels were dramatically reoxygenated at 24 h postirradiation , and HIF - 1 activity increased as HIF - 1alpha accumulated in the reoxygenated regions .
We tested this using HT - 1080 , NCI , and Shac fibrosarcoma - derived cell lines and anthrax lethal toxin ( LeTx ) , a bacterial toxin that inactivates MKKs .
Recently VEGF - B and VEGF - C , two new VEGF family members , have been identified that bind to the tyrosine kinase receptors flt - 1 ( VEGFR1 ) , KDR ( VEGFR2 ) , and flt - 4 ( VEGFR3 ) .
[ Tumor metastasis and the fibrinolytic system ] .
We have shown that TNFalpha can cause DNA damages through reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) .
N - myc overrode the metabolic protection provided by Bcl - 2 - induced oxidative phosphorylation by reestablishing the glycolytic phenotype and attenuated the antiapoptotic effect of Bcl - 2 during metabolic stress .
The average IMVD had statistical difference in histological grading ( P less than 0 . 01 ) , and analysis by one to one , the average IMVD had statistical difference between high and median grading .
There is comparatively less evidence to support the use of other treatment modalities for relief of symptoms in intermittent claudication , but there is considerable interest in therapeutic angiogenesis to promote new vessel formation and enhance collateralisation of the lower limb using recombinant growth factor proteins or gene transfer strategies .
After 4 days , these cells are harvested and cytospins made for immunostaining .
Therefore , the role of VEGF after seizures could be either protective or destructive .
Statistical analysis is performed and P < 0 . 05 considered significant .
These data suggest that magnolol promoted apoptosis probably by alleviating the inhibitory effect of Akt on caspase 9 .
Here , we demonstrate in mice pleiotropic involvement of PTHrP in key steps of breast cancer - it influences the initiation and progression of primary tumors and metastases .
These data suggest that c - FLIP may play a critical role in regulating Fas - mediated apoptosis in prostate cancer cells and that modulation of c - FLIP may enhance Fas signaling based therapies .
PURPOSE : Heparin immobilized porous poly ( D , L - lactic - co - glycolic acid ) ( PLGA ) microspheres were prepared for sustained release of basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) to induce angiogenesis .
In this study , the expression of C / EBPbeta was analysed in a series of 90 gastric carcinomas ( GCs ) .
Recently , there is an increasing number of patents which have been focused on the inhibitors of VEGF action .
CONCLUSION : MCT targeting significantly reduced the viability of U - 87 MG cells mediated by both apoptosis and necrosis .
It was also shown by our studies that apoptosis was induced in DU - 145 prostate carcinoma cells with significant cytotoxicity , no matter which agent applied first .
These discoveries have dramatically changed the work - up and genetic counseling of patients and families with paragangliomas and / or pheochromocytomas .
PURPOSE : To evaluate alterations in the retinal vasculature overlying pigment epithelial detachments ( PED ) in exudative age - related macular degeneration ( ARMD ) using indocyanine green and fluorescein angiography .
At intervals of four to 14 days , the animals were challenged by intrastromal inoculation with 10 , 000 plaque - forming units of viable HSV .
Histologically , both 2G7 - treated and control tumors were identical .
The capillary density in group 1 ( ischemia + L - NIL ) was significantly different from group 2 ( ischemia + saline ) ; group 1 : 360 . 33 + / - 77 . 02 , group 2 : 549 + / - 81 . 85 / mm2 , p < 0 . 05 ) . In addition , expression of HIF1alpha was significantly increased in ischemic groups ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
Using a Matrigel plug - based model , in vivo angiogenesis was restricted with STX243 and STX140 ( 50 and 72 % , respectively , using a 10 mg kg ( - 1 ) oral dose ) , thereby showing the antiangiogenic activity of both compounds .
Unexpectedly , cells expressing both Ras and TEL grew as aggregates .
Preliminary data suggest that TnI may be competing with bFGF for interaction with the bFGF receptor on responsive cells .
Protruding and expansive ulcerating carcinomas developed at 36 weeks and had a microvascular pattern similar to that of human adenocarcinoma .
The p24 protein family have multiple functions in protein transport in the early secretory pathway .
The internal convex surface of the caruncles of non - pregnant does was covered with capillary meshes of regular diameter and form , without crypts .
The rabbits were sacrificed and the specimens were procured at 3 days , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 and 6 weeks after surgery for histological observation , Chinese ink perfusion and CD34 immunohistochemistry .
TSP - 1 mRNA levels were decreased in all tumours compared with normal prostate .
However , in vivo , Bmi - 1 over - expression had little effect on CNS stem cell frequency , subventricular zone proliferation , olfactory bulb neurogenesis , or neurogenesis / gliogenesis during development .
Furthermore , we show that p53 is activated in virally infected cells to evoke an apoptotic response and that p53 is critical for antiviral defence of the host .
miR - 378 , miR - 296 , and the miR - 17 - 92 cluster contribute to tumor angiogenesis .
( 3 ) .
Tumour angiogenesis : its mechanism and therapeutic implications in malignant gliomas .
Perlecan is a ubiquitous pericellular proteoglycan ideally placed to mediate cell signaling events controlling migration , proliferation , and differentiation .
Impaired CK1 delta activity attenuates SV40 - induced cellular transformation in vitro and mouse mammary carcinogenesis in vivo .
T140 analogs are peptidic CXCR4 antagonists composed of 14 amino acid residues that were previously developed as anti - HIV agents having inhibitory activity against HIV - entry through its co - receptor , CXCR4 .
This result indicates that CREB functions in the signaling pathway between Akt and MMP .
Since the prognosis of locally advanced and metastatic diseases is poor , increased understanding of the pathogenesis of NPC would be important for discovering novel markers for patients ' management .
The expression of PTEN mRNA and protein was negatively correlated with lymph node metastasis of advanced gastric carcinomas ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Furthermore , i . p . treatment with Hyp reduces acute PMN recruitment and enhances resolution in a pulmonary bleomycin - induced inflammation model , significantly reducing consequent fibrosis .
In contrast , bFGF mRNA was not altered by alinidine treatment .
Indeed , Ang1 promotes the activation of mDia through RhoA , resulting in the association of mDia with Src .
The amplification and overexpression of the HER - 2 / neu proto - oncogene , which encodes the tyrosine kinase receptor p185neu , have been observed frequently in tumors from human breast cancer patients and are correlated with poor prognosis .
HKa and D5 inhibit bovine pulmonary artery endothelial cell ( BPAE ) or human umbilical vein endothelial cell chemotaxis in the modified - Boyden chamber in response toVEGF or S1P .
Loss of p21 completely abolished the cell cycle arrest function of p53R172P and accelerated tumor onset in Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) mice .
Inhibition of p38 SAPK reduced CBP HAT activity and its recruitment to the SRF . MRTF - A complex , whereas enforced induction of p38 by upstream activators ( e . g . MKK3 and MKK6 ) enhanced both CBP HAT and CCN1 promoter activities .
The positive staining of nm23 - H1 gene product in primary cancers and metastatic lymph nodes were observed in 56 . 5 and 67 . 4 % , respectively .
RNA and DNA viruses can be transforming and tumourigenic agents .
Treatment with 25 mg / kg cyclopamine significantly attenuated BrdU incorporation in tumor cells threefold ( P less than 0 . 001 ) , in tumor related endothelial cells threefold ( P = 0 . 004 ) , and delayed tumor growth by 4 days .
The dominant negative mutant of Rac1 completely inhibited ephrin - B1 - induced membrane ruffling and focal complex assembly .
Randomised placebo controlled trials have shown that the phosphodiesterase III inhibitor cilostazol 100mg bid improves pain - free and maximum walking distance , as well as quality of life , in a range of patients with intermittent claudication in whom there is no evidence of tissue necrosis or rest pain .
These data demonstrate for the first time that hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 is significantly overexpressed in ovarian tumors and suggest LL - 37 may contribute to ovarian tumorigenesis through direct stimulation of tumor cells , initiation of angiogenesis and recruitment of immune cells .
These studies showed that allergen - induced pulmonary inflammation resulted in a > 3 - fold increase in lung metastases .
Here we show that transcription of the p53 gene is induced by IFN - alpha / beta , accompanied by an increase in p53 protein level .
Modulation of invasion within such systems is ascribed to balances between promoter and suppressor pathways .
PTTG induced S100A4 and galectin - 1 mRNA and protein expression as assessed by Western blot and reverse transcription - PCR .
There was a significant correlation between loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 expression and upregulation of c - myc .
This dual activity , together with the initiation of signal transduction pathways by uPAR , is believed to influence cellular behaviour in angiogenesis , inflammation , wound repair and tumor progression / metastasis and open up the way for uPAR - based therapeutic approaches .
Cytotoxic chemotherapy resistance is linked to limited therapeutic options and poor prognosis .
Osteotomy fracture healing without the traction stimulus failed to induce a corresponding increase in these factors .
Lack of IL - 17F did not reverse the splenomegaly but partially restored thymic atrophy , suggesting a local effect of IL - 17F in the intestine .
After 24 h treatment with 80 microM magnolol in serum - containing medium , about 50 % of the cells exhibited apoptotic features and 20 % necrotic features .
This suggests that expression of DR antigens also can be modulated post - transcriptionally .
Pre - treatment with rapamycin inhibited activation of mTOR signalling and significantly enhanced the sensitivity of CaSki cells to paclitaxel by increasing apoptotic cell death .
Inhibition of MEK also blocked growth factor induced migration but not adhesion of endothelial cells in vitro .
Western blot and immunohistochemical assays were used to evaluate Fas and FasL protein expression .
Thus , it is highly unlikely that the p53 molecule per se carries intrinsic or even associated kinase activities .
Cediranib ( RECENTIN ; AZD2171 ) is an inhibitor of VEGF signaling that has been shown in experimental models to prevent VEGF - A - induced angiogenesis and primary tumor growth , yet the effects of cediranib on VEGF receptor ( VEGFR ) - 3 - mediated endothelial cell function and lymphangiogenesis are unknown .
VDAs specifically target and destroy well - established tumor vessels with ischemia and destruction of large masses with central hemorrhagic necrosis and survival of a thin peripheral tumor layer .
In this review , we discuss the reported involvement of syndecans in human cancers , infectious diseases , obesity , wound healing and angiogenesis .
We sought to test whether p53 could behave in a manner similar to known genes in a biological test system , and we demonstrate here that p53 can cooperate with the activated Ha - ras oncogene to transform normal embryonic cells .
Raising the albino mice in the dark prevented both events .
Among the members of this superfamily there are proteins with a regulatory function , such as ras , and proteins involved in vesicular trafficking , such as the family of rab proteins .
siRNA - mediated knockdown of the ATG7 gene also sensitized hepatoma cells to sorafenib .
Insufficient angiogenesis occurs in diseases such as coronary artery disease , stroke and chronic wounds .
BMSVTs exhibited a partially transformed phenotype , demonstrating growth factor independence , altered antigen expression and forming tiny , infrequent colonies in vitro .
We further show that Stat3 is phosphorylated at S727 in 65 % of malignant prostate tissues ( n = 20 ) relative to 25 % of normal prostate tissues ( n = 4 ) .
RESULTS : HER2 receptor protein was absent in adenomas and in normal gallbladder epithelium .
Because of the imperfect association of nuclear grade and ECP % or MVD , CC - RCC was also grouped based on low / high MVD and ECP % .
However , it remains unknown whether or not allogeneic transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells ( MSC ) derived from fetal membranes ( FM ) , which are generally discarded as medical waste after delivery , has therapeutic potential .
This resulted in a substantial increase in P185neu expression , which led to the formation of progressively growing carcinomas after such cells were inoculated into athymic nude mice .
The result showed that the multilevel of FPC could all apparently induce Bel - 7402 apoptosis .
Reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) produced in the course of cellular oxidative phosphorylation , and by activated phagocytic cells during oxidative bursts , exceed the physiological buffering capacity and result in oxidative stress .
RNA damage and inhibition of neoplastic endothelial cell growth : effects of human and amphibian ribonucleases .
In addition , these clones also exhibit aggressive tumorigenic phenotypes in vivo with short latency in tumor formation in both immunodeficient and syngeneic mice .
We therefore hypothesized that ANG II could be a mediator between homeostatic changes within the vascular perfusion bed and growth factor - driven angiogenesis .
CONCLUSIONS : These results suggest that CD40 expression on lung cancer may play a role in metastatic spread , and also may serve as a prognostic marker and an indicator of advanced disease .
CK1delta mutants exhibited a reduced kinase activity compared to wtCK1delta in in vitro kinase assays .
Ischemic cardiac muscle is additionally vulnerable because reperfusion is essential for survival but reperfusion itself poses additional stress principally from increased production of free radicals during reoxygenation .
The most intense immunoreactivity was observed in branching capillaries .
hADA3 binds selectively to the high - risk HPV E6 proteins and only to immortalization - competent E6 mutants .
Our study reveals a novel link between HMGA2 and the regulation of human telomerase reverse transcriptase ( hTERT ) , the catalytic subunit of telomerase , which offers critical insight into how HMGA2 contributes to tumorigenesis .
One week later , IGF - 1 - transfected SMCs had increased myocardial IGF - 1 and VEGF levels , increased Bcl2 expression , limited cell apoptosis , and enhanced vessel formation in the myocardial scar compared with the two control groups ( P less than 0 . 05 for all groups ) .
UK infusion prior to 5 - fluorouracil increased tissue concentration of antitumor agent .
We investigated a prophylactically thyroidectomized MEN II A population to determine whether the highly specific and sensitive tumor marker calcitonin correlates with tumor spread .
Multiple proteins involved in metastasis and the cytoskeletal reorganization signal pathway , including Ras , Cdc42 , Rac1 , RhoA , RhoB , PI3K and p38MAPK , were also inhibited by GA .
Neuroblastoma and hepatocyte coculture conditioned media alter apoptosis .
Lewis lung carcinoma , with a mechanism unrelated to cytotoxicity for tumor cells .
These results indicate carbohydrate metabolism is altered in dogs with lymphoma .
These results suggest that the reduced APC protein level increases intestinal polyp multiplicity through quantitative stimulation of the beta - catenin / T - cell factor transcription .
Cells transformed by Rous sarcoma virus release transforming growth factors .
The relationship between TS and DPD expression and clinicopathological data was analyzed .
However , the cellular functions of VASP are not known .
However , recent works demonstrate that Brn - 3a expression is not restricted to neuronal cells , as its activity was detected also in cancer cells of non - neuronal nature .
Insulin - like growth factor I induces tumor hexokinase RNA expression in cancer cells .
RESULTS : The antiapoptotic protein Bcl - 2 was highly expressed by pulmonary endothelial cells in all cases of irreversible PHT but in no cases of reversible PHT , nor in control patients ( p less than 0 . 001 ) .
Our data suggest that plasmin - nicked beta2GPI promotes angiogenesis by interacting with plasmin - generated AS4 . 5 in sites of increased fibrinolysis such as thrombus .
1 - Tetradecylpyrrolidine N - oxide ( TPNO ) , one of the most active compounds , immediately after addition to the suspension of Ehrlich cells in an ice bath , decreased the level of ATP to the same extent over the whole concentration range .
It has been suggested that the immortalized phenotype is mediated by an extra cellular factor .
The insulin - conditioned RPE cell media stimulated capillary endothelial cell proliferation , an effect that was completely blocked by anti - VEGF neutralizing antibody .
Sci .
Furthermore , we show that VEGF - A stimulation of hemopoietic cells does not significantly alter this process .
Unlike wounds , however , that turn off VPF production after healing , tumors did not turn off their VPF production and instead continued to make large amounts of VPF , allowing malignant cells to continue to induce new blood vessels and so to grow and spread .
Proto - oncogene N - myc promoter is down regulated by the Wilms ' tumor suppressor gene WT1 .
For the purpose of investigating the relationship between the metastatic potential of the tumor as well as the expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA , and for determing the location of the positive sites in the cells , tumor metastasis suppressor gene nm23 - H1 in human hepatocellular carcinoma ( and the nonneoplastic area surrounding the tumor ) was detected by in situ hybridization using digoxiginin - labeled nm23 - H1 antisense complementary RNA probe .
No [ 13C ] glucose utilization was detected in H4 spheroids , but uptake of alanine and accumulation of labeled lactate , glutamate and glutamine indicated oxidation via the tricarboxylic acid ( TCA ) cycle .
Inhibition of PDGF - stimulated and matrix - mediated proliferation of human vascular smooth muscle cells by SPARC is independent of changes in cell shape or cyclin - dependent kinase inhibitors .
Furthermore , the possibility of selective targeting of PTEN mutant tumor cells by specific pharmacologic inhibitors of members of the Pten / PI3K / Akt pathway opens up new perspectives for a targeted molecular therapy of malignant gliomas .
Angiogenic factors , in particular vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and the angiopoietins , Ang - 1 and - 2 , have recently generated significant interest , especially in oncology .
Nucleotide sequence analysis of a 3116bp cDNA clone revealed a 2682 - bp - long open reading frame capable of directing the synthesis of a 894 amino acid polypeptide .
Most anti - angiogenic therapies for malignant gliomas are in Phase I / II trials and only modest efficacies are reported for monotherapies .
We have examined this hypothesis using a model that measures the neovascularization of an implanted foreign material .
Animals were sacrificed at 3 - week intervals from 0 to 39 weeks after treatments began .
Gangliocytic paraganglioma ( GPG ) with local lymph node metastasis was found in the pancreas of a 74 - yr - old female who presented with diarrhea , steatorrhea , vomiting , nausea , and abdominal pain .
The expression of JUN , ERBB2 , MYC , cyclin D , PCNA , bFGF , VEGF and Hsp70 proteins revealed a positive correlation to lymph node involvement .
All courses were evaluated for safety and 31 for efficacy .
However , the transfer of either the p16 or Rb gene to glioma cells results in cytostatic effect .
Forty male golden hamsters were divided into four equal groups .
Current prospects for controlling cancer growth with non - cytotoxic agents - - nutrients , phytochemicals , herbal extracts , and available drugs .
In all cases , the somatostatin receptors were localized in veins , particularly in the smooth - muscle cell layer .
In both of the other two cases , the patterns of X - chromosome inactivation clearly demonstrated the presence of independent primary tumors .
This suggests that FOXO3a is a potential suppressor of carcinogenic damage in LAC .
Here we demonstrated that all retinal MCs express CX3C chemokine receptor 1 ( CX3CR1 ) and that homozygosity for the CX3CR1 M280 allele , which is associated with impaired cell migration , increases the risk of AMD .
Photodynamic therapy with verteporfin for subfoveal choroidal neovascularization secondary to pathologic myopia : long - term study .
CD154 , but not CD40 expression , significantly correlated with tumor stage .
These properties make such agents potentially useful as adjunctive therapy in haemophilia .
Based on the models assessed herein , we infer that that FH deficiency compels cells to adopt an early , reversible , and progressive protumorigenic metabolic milieu that is reminiscent of that driving the Warburg effect .
Serum VEGF levels were higher in patients with PDR than in those without DR ( 219 + / - 99 vs . 139 + / - 98 pg / ml , p less than 0 . 001 ) ; however , patients with poor and good CCC had similar VEGF levels .
Exposure to combinations of paclitaxel or carboplatin and 317615 x 2HCl with MX - 1 cells in culture resulted in cell survival that reflected primarily additivity of the two agents .
We also report that SPARC arrests monomeric collagen - supported smooth muscle cell proliferation in the late G1 - phase of the cell cycle in the absence of an effect on cell shape or on levels of cyclin - dependent kinase inhibitors .
The induction of elevated p53 levels commenced at immediate - early times of the HCMV multiplication cycle ( 6 h postinfection ) and reached maximal levels by 24 h postinfection , before most of the HCMV DNA synthesis was initiated .
A possible explanation for the decrease in the ATP level might be interaction of the amine oxide with the cell membrane .
RESULTS : The apoptosis rate of the old donor - derived MSCs group was significantly higher than that of the young donor - derived MSCs group under conditions of ischemia and anoxia ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
The underlying mechanisms were systematically investigated in vitro and in vivo .
In 32 evaluated breast cancer patients with endocrine - dependent distant metastases treated with a new immunotherapy schedule ( cyclic administration of beta - interferon and interleukin - 2 ) , cellular immunity , cytokines and CRP were related to the clinical course .
In this study , we determined the effectiveness of vasostatin delivered by recombinant pseudotype adeno - associated virus 2 / 5 ( rAAV2 / 5 - VAS ) as a gene therapy approach for lung cancer treatment .
Estrogen is crucial in breast carcinogenesis and tumor progression .
Moreover , we show that subjecting transfected hepatoma cells to hypoxic conditions activates the type II hexokinase promoter almost 3 - fold , a value that approaches 7 - fold in the presence of glucose .
There is considerable debate concerning where in the cell Notch functions and what proteins serve as effectors of the Notch signal .
In this study , we examined whether all - trans - retinoic acid ( all - trans - RA ) and other retinoids , which exhibit antitumor activity in vitro and in vivo , affect the collagenolytic activity of metastatic rat 13762NF mammary adenocarcinoma cells .
Notch proteins are plasma membrane - spanning receptors that mediate important cell fate decisions such as differentiation , proliferation , and apoptosis .
However , the regulation of adipose tissue angiogenesis in humans has not been extensively studied .
The aim of this study was to compare the effects of PRP and platelet - poor plasma ( PPP ) on healing of critical - size bone defects . Bilateral full - thickness , critical - size bone defects were created in the parietal bones of 32 rabbits , which had been studied in 4 groups .
CONCLUSIONS : Intravitreal bevacizumab can be used to treat radiation retinopathy .
In the immunohistochemical analysis of EGFR and TGF - alpha and Ki67 index , a significant increase was observed in Ca ex - PA , especially with adenocarcinoma , compared with PA and sialadenitis .
Patients with low or absence expressing SPARC had significantly worse overall survival and disease - free survival in a Single Factor Analysis ; Cox Regression Analysis , SPARC emerged as an overall survival and disease - free survival independent prognostic factor for colon cancer .
Here , we review the molecular basis of AID regulation , targeting , and initiation of CSR and SHM , as well as AID ' s role in generating chromosome translocations that contribute to lymphomagenesis .
These findings reveal a previously unrecognized regulatory role for Ang II on sFlt - 1 expression in murine and human pregnancy and suggest that elevated sFlt - 1 levels in preeclampsia may be caused by a dysregulation of the local renin / angiotensin system .
Spironolactone affected both systemic ( down - regulation of CD25 + cells in spleen ) and local immune response ( up - regulation of IL - 10 in cornea ) .
CONCLUSION : Our results show the effectiveness of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS as an angiogenesis inhibitor in suppressing tumor growth during different stages of tumor progression , validating the application of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS gene therapy in treatment against lung cancer .
Moreover , U - 995 ( 30 micrograms / ml ) markedly prevented collagenase - induced collagenolysis .
GTPase - deficient , constitutively activated mutant of Galpha ( 12 ) ( Galpha ( 12 ) Q229L or Galpha ( 12 ) QL ) has been previously shown to induce oncogenic transformation of NIH3T3 cells promoting serum - and anchorage - independent growth .
These findings advance our understanding of the functions of N - myc in neuroblastoma cells .
Expression of AQP5 was associated with cellular differentiation , lymph node invasion , and clinicopathological staging .
The biological properties of CCN proteins include stimulation of cell proliferation , migration , and adhesion , as well as angiogenesis and tumorigenesis .
Overexpression of SEMA3B and SEMA3F reduced focal adhesion kinase phosphorylation and matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and matrix metalloproteinase - 9 expression in ovarian cancer cells .
Twenty mature male New Zealand white rabbits ( 3 kg weight ) were employed to evaluate the effects of two empirically selected stimulation paradigms applied continuously for 7 - 21 days , using each animal as its own control .
Attenuation of the proangiogenic effects by neutralizing VEGF antibodies suggests VEGF play a key role in the acquisition of the angiogenic phenotype in oral cancer cells .
We assessed the effects of these mutations on the ability of the v - fos protein to transform chicken embryo fibroblasts and to stimulate cellular proliferation of chicken neuroretinal cells .
Then , we demonstrated a mitochondrial membrane potential disruption followed by cytochrome c release that indicates the involvement of mitochondria in this apoptotic signaling pathway .
However , no published data are available concerning the biological and clinical significance of COUP - TFII expression in colorectal cancer .
The soluble factors they release in its presence arrest the cycle of endothelial cells ( EC ) , inhibit in vitro angiogenesis , negatively modulate the production of matrix metalloproteinase - 9 , and the ability of EC to adhere to vitronectin and up - regulate ICAM - 1 and VCAM - 1 expression .
Our previous studies have shown that the neurotransmitter dopamine could inhibit VEGF - induced phosphorylation of VEGF receptor 2 ( VEGFR - 2 ) , endothelial cell proliferation , migration , microvascular permeability , and thus , angiogenesis .
Furthermore , the formation of complexes containing KDR and NRP1 markedly increased 125I - VEGF165 binding to KDR .
In a complex organism , somatic cells are under intermittent selection pressure for the emergence of mutants that can survive environmental insults and that can grow autonomously despite adverse conditions .
Vascularization of subcutaneous Matrigel implants as well as tumor angiogenesis were both inhibited in PECAM - 1 - null mice .
The angiogenic response of fat tissue is not identical to placental tissue .
Using c - FLIP anti - sense oligonucleotides to down - regulate c - FLIP we sensitized DU145 cells to CH - 11 - induced apoptosis .
Up - regulation of MMP activity , favoring proteolytic degradation of the basement membrane and extracellular matrix , has been linked to tumor growth and metastasis , as well as tumor - associated angiogenesis , whereas inhibition of MMP activity appears to restrict these processes .
Single conditional knockouts for Smad1 or Smad5 or mice homozygous null for Smad8 are viable and fertile .
Paclitaxel , a potent anti - neoplastic agent , has been found to be effective against several tumours , including cervical cancer .
To analyze the role of ADAM - 9 for the interaction between melanoma cells and stromal fibroblasts , we produced the recombinant disintegrin - like and cysteine - rich domain of ADAM - 9 ( DC - 9 ) .
METHODS : NF - kappaB inhibition was achieved by IkappaBalpha super - repressor adenoviral vector and activation was monitored by EMSA and reporter assays .
Blood and vascular disorders underlie a plethora of pathologic conditions and are the single most frequent cause of human disease .
Angiogenesis in platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule - 1 - null mice .
Our data suggest that VEGFR2 - mediated regulation of endothelial function is dependent on different but specific Rab - mediated GTP hydrolysis activity required for endosomal trafficking .
TTF - 1 staining is very reliable in discerning whether a brain metastasis has arisen from a pulmonary or nonpulmonary site , particularly when dealing with adenocarcinomas and large - cell carcinomas .
Anarchic angiogenesis with large , moniliform , tortuous vessels was seen in severe dysplasias and carcinomas .
s - VEGF in peripheral blood samples was analyzed in 40 RCC patients and 40 patients without cancer ( controls ) using a sandwich enzyme - linked immunoassay .
These findings suggest that nm23 - H1 encodes for suppression of colon carcinoma metastasis .
Emodin , at a 40 - microM concentration , which repressed tyrosine kinase of p185neu , efficiently inhibited both anchorage - dependent and anchorage - independent growth of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells .
The HDAC inhibition of HTPB was confirmed using HDAC activity assay .
Differential proteomic analysis of human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line metastasis - associated proteins .
Moreover , this study is the first in vivo report of the radiation - induced p53 apoptotic response in patients and suggests that this apoptotic response is not immunologically silent .
p53 hot - spot mutants increase tumor vascularization via ROS - mediated activation of the HIF1 / VEGF - A pathway .
Finally , intraperitoneal injection or oral administration of HTPB efficiently inhibited A549 xenograft tumor growth in vivo without side effects .
TB4 expression in B16F10 cells was increased by hypoxia conditioning in a time - dependent manner .
At this time , the cells ' growth is arrested at very high density , and no differentiated morphologic characteristics are observed .
In contrast , the response of cells to long - term treatment with PDBu was significantly different depending upon the initial growth state of the cells .
Thalidomide and angiostatin inhibit tumor growth in a murine xenograft model of human cervical cancer .
The cytostatic drug doxorubicin is a well - known chemotherapeutic agent which is used in treatment of a wide variety of cancers .
Analyses of this sort may help to identify the cellular targets of pp60src whose phosphorylation is necessary for the increased glucose transport rate .
We also detected strong activation of AKT in allograft tumors specifically AKT2 as the predominant isoform involved .
Calculations of the sources of energy for adenosine triphosphate synthesis indicated that on the average about one - third of the respiratory adenosine triphosphate is generated by electron flow originating from cytosolic NADH via the malate - aspartate shuttle .
Using multivariate analysis the S - 100beta level was the most powerful prognostic indicator , while the metastatic profile was found to be significant after exclusion of S - 100beta .
Together , the results of this study identify molecular mechanisms that initiate hemangiosarcoma , a key step in understanding safety concerns that can impact drug decision processes , and identified hypoxia as a possible contributing factor for 2 - BE - induced hemangiosarcoma in mice .
It is questionable , whether collateral arteries also form de novo in ischemic vascular diseases .
FPR and the piperazine derivatives caused suppression of angiogenesis and in combination with thrombin antagonized its angiogenic effect .
Ets - 1 , a transcription factor , is induced in endothelial cells ( ECs ) during angiogenesis .
CONCLUSIONS : These results suggest that , despite correlation of nm23 - H1 allelic deletions with colon cancers associated with poor prognosis , nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 alleles do not directly mediate metastasis suppression in colon carcinoma .
We show that transgenic expression of CDKs in the embryonic oral ectoderm is specifically retained in undifferentiated cells from the pars intermedia of the adenohypophysis .
This correlation was due to a higher number of blood vessels rather than to a larger size of the blood vessels .
Rise in lactate concentrations over baseline levels in the first 30 minutes of the glucose tolerance test were significantly higher in dogs with lymphoma ( P = 0 . 011 ) .
Mechanisms for the magnolol - induced cell death of CGTH W - 2 thyroid carcinoma cells .
Additionally , the angiogenic and lymphangiogenic profiles of the tumors were characterized .
To assess its role on human vascular lung development , we first examined the expression of IGF - I / II and IGF receptor type I ( IGF - IR ) in human embryonic and fetal lung tissues at 4 - 12 wk of gestation .
A novel method of assessing vascular endothelial function in cancer is via the quantification of circulating endothelial cells ( CEC ) .
Fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 - positive fibroblasts provide a suitable microenvironment for tumor development and progression in esophageal carcinoma .
CONCLUSION : Calretinin is a very useful marker for positive identification of normal and tumor mesothelial cells in serous effusions .
The antiangiogenic properties of PDT have been adapted for treatment of subfoveal choroidal neovascular membranes due to disease states such as age - related macular degeneration ( AMD ) .
Here we show that IL - 12 activates an anti - angiogenic program in Con A - activated mouse spleen cells ( activated spc ) or human PBMC ( activated PBMC ) .
This creates a network of Hedgehog signaling that determines the malignant behavior of the tumor cells .
A pair of primers bracketing the XhoI site were designed to synthesize the EBV DNA fragment from nucleotides 169 , 081 - 169 , 577 by using the polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) method .
In all of these assays , equivalent treatments with a mixture of the HAH plus cortisol was significantly less effective .
In a second step , these parameters were further analyzed by hierarchical cluster analyses .
The authors concluded that , as also in the study of Northern blotting , the expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA significantly correlated inversely with lymph node metastasis in CBM , while the expression of nm23 - H2 mRNA not .
TESTING THE HYPOTHESIS : Stimulation of dormant micrometastases by primary tumor removal is known to occur in animal models .
These results also suggest therapeutic implications concerning Wnt signaling inhibitors .
In the control group ( group 1 ) no further management was undertaken .
Molecular mechanisms of pituitary tumorigenesis were studied using Polymerase chain reaction - single stranded conformational polymorphism with DNA sequencing to identify potential mutations in the ras protooncogenes and the tumor suppressor gene p53 in invasive pituitary adenomas and carcinomas .
Mast cells and tumors .
The relationship between expression of PTEN mRNA and protein and lymph node metastasis or LOH of microsatellites was discussed .
As in prior studies , there were significant vascular volume differences between DMBA and DMBA + radiation groups of tumor - bearing cheek pouches .
The optimal duration of chemotherapy in patients with early and metastatic colorectal cancer is unclear .
Development of obesity is associated with extensive modifications in adipose tissue involving adipogenesis , angiogenesis and extracellular matrix proteolysis .
The most common genetic alterations found in a wide variety of cancers are p53 tumor suppressor gene mutations .
NaF reduced the glucose consumption at early stage , possibly by inhibition of glycolysis , whereas cisplatin and etoposide reduced the glucose consumption at later stage , suggesting that early decline of glucose consumption is rather specific to NaF .
Systemic inhibitors of TNF such as etanercept ( Enbrel ) ( a soluble TNF receptor ) and infliximab ( Remicade ) and adalimumab ( Humira ) ( anti - TNF antibodies ) have been approved for the treatment inflammatory bowel disease , psoriasis and rheumatoid arthritis .
At the cellular level many actions of thrombin can contribute to activation of angiogenesis : ( 1 ) .
The increased transport rate is a consequence of an increased number of transporters in the transformed cells .
The expression of Merlin protein was not associated with the pathological type , gender , P - TNM stage , differentiation and lymph node metastasis ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
Lewis lung carcinoma .
Distinct role of PLCbeta3 in VEGF - mediated directional migration and vascular sprouting .
Dopamine pretreatment increases the translocation and colocalization of Src - homology - 2 - domain - containing protein tyrosine phosphatase ( SHP - 2 ) with D2DR at the cell surface .
To this end , two candidate anti - angiogenic RNA - damaging agents , onconase and ( - 4 ) rhEDN , were screened for their effects on endothelial cell proliferation using three distinct types of endothelial cells in culture : HPV - 16 E6 / E7 - immortalized human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) , a Kras - transformed HPV - 16 E6 / E7 HUVEC ( Rhim et al . , Carcinogenesis 4 , 673 - 681 , 1998 ) , and primary HUVECs .
Recently , knock - out mice of homeobox genes by targeted disruption have also been used to examine their hematological effect .
The direct addition of all - trans - RA to conditioned medium had no effect on secreted collagenase activity .
Here , we demonstrate that aglycon of rhizochalin ( AglRhz ) from the Rhizochalina incrustata induces AMP - activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) phosphorylation , and thereby inhibits mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) - p70S6 kinase - extracellular signal - regulated kinase ( ERK ) signaling and activator protein 1 ( AP - 1 ) activity via phosphorylation of Raptor in HT - 29 cells .
This phenotype was most likely based on decreased focal contact turnover caused by reduced expression of p130Cas , a key player in directed cell migration .
The average IMVD in positive and negative cervical lymphatic metastasis was ( 26 . 33 + / - 9 . 70 ) and ( 17 . 68 + / - 6 . 06 ) respectively , and the IMVD with positive lymphatic metastasis tumors was statistical significantly higher than those with negative cervical lymphatic metastasis tumors ( P less than 0 . 01 ) .
Aflibercept ( AVE0005 ) : an alternative strategy for inhibiting tumour angiogenesis by vascular endothelial growth factors .
AQP1 was expressed in cell membranes and its expression was higher in cancer than that in normal tissues .
Apoptotic index ( AI ) was calculated , based on the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase - mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate biotin nick end labeling , to evaluate apoptosis .
On the contrary , the constitutive activation of Nrf2 due to mutations in the keap1 gene is characteristically observed in lung cancer cells , suggesting that induced expression of Nrf2 target genes favors the prevalence of cancer cells .
The effect of platelets on the content of urokinase plasminogen activator ( uPA ) and VEGF in SKOV3 cell conditioned medium was measured using an ELISA assay .
To analyze the structure - function relationship for the v - fos protein , we constructed in - frame insertion and deletion mutants of the v - fos gene carried by FBJ - MuSV , and expressed them in chicken primary cells using retrovirus vectors .
CONCLUSION : BRAF p . Val600Lys mutations were present at a relatively high frequency in this cohort of metastatic melanoma patients ( 27 / 183 , 15 % ) .
Changes in endothelial cell shape accompanied SOC activation and were dependent on Ca2 + entry - induced reconfiguration of peripheral ( cortical ) filamentous actin ( F - actin ) .
Human T - cell lymphoma virus ( HTLV ) - 1 was the first human retrovirus to be discovered .
RESULTS : PCR and chimeric BMP - 2 and BMP - 4 luciferase assays demonstrate that NF - kappaB confers robust and selective activation of BMP - 2 in p65 overexpressing or rhTNF - alpha - stimulated PC cells .
Interestingly , CDK4 - expressing cells , but not CDK2 - expressing cells , strongly synergize with lack of p27 ( Kip1 ) to generate pituitary carcinomas that appear with shortened latency and are drastically more aggressive than those arising in p27 ( - / - ) mice .
RESULTS : The final visual acuity of the study patients , after a median follow - up of 31 months , improved by greater than or = 1 Snellen lines in 8 patients ( 13 % ) , deteriorated in 20 ( 32 % ) , and remained stable in 34 ( 55 % ) .
LDH5 overexpression was associated with histological type ( adenocarcinoma = 57 % , squamous cell carcinoma = 45 % , large cell carcinoma = 46 % , p = 0 . 006 ) .
In hPNAS - 4 - p - treated tumor cells in vivo , tumor growth significantly decreased , while the survival time of tumor - bearing mice was prolonged compared with control groups ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
We conclude that CD47 signaling can negatively affect the viability and function of cerebral endothelial cells , further supporting the notion that CD47 may be a potential neurovascular target for stroke and brain injury .
In vivo and in vitro results .
Tumour - specific distribution of BRCA1 promoter region methylation supports a pathogenetic role in breast and ovarian cancer .
c - kit gene mutation may play a significant role in the pathogenesis of GIST and also may be a prognostic marker .
In the current article we demonstrate that TnI inhibits both bFGF - stimulated and basal levels of endothelial cell proliferation , and we hypothesize that this inhibition is occurring , at least in part , via an interaction of TnI with the cell - surface bFGF receptor on capillary endothelial cells .
It is suggested that MMP - 9 may have a role in the LMP1 - induced acceleration of invasion and metastasis of NPC cells .
From a functional perspective , we observe that caffeine also significantly inhibits the A3 receptor - stimulated cell migration of colon cancer cells .
Treatment of NIH3T3 / KDR cells with TKI - 31 blocked VEGF - induced phosphorylation of KDR in a dose - dependent manner .
These fundamental discoveries led to additional research conducted by Napoleone Ferrara and his laboratory , confirming the cloning of VPF and renaming the protein vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
This may reflect a transition in blood concentration of each metabolite resulting from the administration of UFT .
Associations of KISS1 methylation and its expression with histopathological variables and poor survival suggest the utility of incorporating KISS1 measurement using paraffin - embedded material for tumor stratification and clinical outcome prognosis of patients with uroepithelial neoplasias .
Three weeks later , 2 x 10 ( 6 ) cells from three groups were implanted into the scar .
Actin - sequestering protein , thymosin beta - 4 , is a novel hypoxia responsive regulator .
Our results show CWR22Rv - 1 and PC3 tumor cell lines to be more metastatic than LAPC - 4 , which in turn disseminates more readily than LAPC - 9 .
Requirement of estrogen receptor expression and function for [ 12Val ] K - Ras - mediated NIH3T3 cell transformation .
The authors report on a case series of 13 patients with recurrent heavily pretreated malignant glioma that was treated with the combination of bevacizumab and irinotecan .
The importance of this tumor suppressor in the mechanisms of carcinogenesis is beyond question as the inactivation of ARF suppressor activity leads to the rapid growth of neoplasia .
Adipose tissue layered on CAM stimulated angiogenesis .
Solid tumors are frequently necrotic and hypoxic due to poor vascularization .
p53 protein staining was positive in 29 . 7 % .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is an angiogenic stimulator which functions through two endothelial specific tyrosine kinase receptors , Flt - 1 and Flk - 1 .
The apoptosis characteristics of MSCs were observed under conditions of ischemia and anoxia .
Prostate cancer dissemination is difficult to detect in the clinic , and few treatment options exist for patients with advanced - stage disease .
In vivo glucose and alanine kinetics were examined by tracer methodology in a sarcoma - bearing rat model .
At univariate analysis , overexpression of c - erbB2 did not affect either DFS or OAS ; tamoxifen had a greater effect on reducing the risk of recurrence than of death .
METHODS : The authors evaluated plasma endostatin ( PE ) levels using an enzyme linked immunoassay in 71 patients with acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) and 43 patients with myelodysplastic syndrome ( MDS ) , and correlated PE with various clinical parameters .
If generalizable to additional cell lines and human disease , this observation may partially explain the adverse prognosis associated with thrombocytosis in ovarian cancer .
TC - PTP PTPase expression was only slightly increased in these neu transformed cells , and no expression of CD45 PTPase was observed .
Restoration occurred in the presence of a protein synthesis inhibitor but not after a transcriptional block , indicating that c - myc is a direct , transcriptionally regulated target of c - Myb .
Increases in VEGF could contribute to the blood - brain barrier breakdown and inflammation observed after seizures .
The scope of the present review is to discuss from a clinical point of view the potential interactions between VEGF and angiopoietins in the asthmatic airways , and focus on the therapeutic implications targeting for these angiogenic factors .
Human K562 cells , which express PHGPX , but not GPX , were also more sensitive to t - BuOOH in the Se - deficient ( K . Se ( - ) ) than Se - satisfied ( K . Se ( + ) ) condition .
In contrast , VEGF121 , which does not bind to NRP1 , did not support complex formation .
LVI was correctly identified by D2 - 40 ( D2 - 40 + ) in 70 out of 254 tumors ( 28 % ) as compared to 40 tumors ( 16 % ) by routine HE staining ( HE + ) .
Furthermore , Ang II stimulated sFlt - 1 production in a dose - and time - dependent manner from human villous explants and cultured trophoblasts but not from endothelial cells , suggesting that trophoblasts are the primary source of sFlt - 1 during pregnancy .
In addition , higher apoptotic counts were associated with HRK positivity .
The apoptosis induced by Sim is probably initiated by the mitochondrial caspase 9 , which indirectly leads to activation of caspase 3 and 8 .
We quantified CYR61 , CTGF , WISP - 1 , and NOV mRNA expression levels in samples from sixty - six primary gliomas and five normal brain samples using quantitative real - time PCR assay .
The antisense oligomers complementary to the ER suppressed proliferation and transformed phenotypes of K12V cells .
Identification of naturally occurring VEGF inhibitors derived from diet would be one alternative approach with an advantage of known safety .
Proteomic comparison of nasopharyngeal cancer cell lines C666 - 1 and NP69 identifies down - regulation of annexin II and beta2 - tubulin for nasopharyngeal carcinoma .
c - myb is a frequent target of retroviral insertional mutagenesis in murine leukemia virus - induced myeloid leukemia .
Endothelial cell migration and vascular endothelial growth factor expression are the result of loss of breast tissue polarity .
Selective inhibition of nuclear factor - kappaB by nuclear factor - kappaB essential modulator - binding domain peptide suppresses the metastasis of highly metastatic oral squamous cell carcinoma .
Survivin expression in breast carcinoma : correlation with apoptosis and prognosis .
CONCLUSION : The data suggest that both h - MVD and VEGF immunoreactivity may be useful predictors for the progression of a subset of OSCC associated mostly with betel use .
Other enzymes , in anaerobic and aerobic glycolysis , which were blocked include hexokinase , phosphofructokinase , succinic and alpha - ketoglutarate dehydrogenases , as well as States 3 and 4 of oxidative phosphorylation .
Mitogen - activated protein kinase kinase signaling promotes growth and vascularization of fibrosarcoma .
20 - HETE also increased the phosphorylation of p42 / p44 mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) in EC , whereas an inhibitor of MAPK [ U0126 , 1 , 4 - diamino - 2 , 3 - dicyano - 1 , 4 - bis ( 2 - aminophenylthio ) butadiene ] suppressed the proliferative and the VEGF changes but not the pro - oxidant effects of 20 - HETE .
Apoptosis induced by 1 ' - acetoxychavicol acetate in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells is associated with modulation of polyamine metabolism and caspase - 3 activation .
Curcumin , which is a widely used dietary pigment and spice , has been demonstrated to be an effective inhibitor of tumor promotion in mouse skin carcinogenesis .
After 1 week of treatment , before an increase in capillary length density , VEGF mRNA increased greater than 2 - fold and then declined to control levels after 3 weeks of treatment .
Both small RNAs contain a latency promoter binding factor consensus recognition sequence located toward their 5 ' ends as well as two potential ICP4 recognition consensus sequences , one in each orientation .
In all cases , only inhibition of PKCalpha inhibited each of these functions when compared to the inhibition of PKCbeta .
Tumor microenvironment , a dangerous society leading to cancer metastasis .
Media supplemented with and without 10 % Oxygent were compared in all assessments .
In vivo , ethanol exposure caused both decreased angiogenesis and increased hypoxia in wounds .
In conclusion , 14 - 3 - 3zeta and beta - catenin might have an important role in development , progression and metastatic process of NSCLC .
Role of stromal myofibroblasts in invasive breast cancer : stromal expression of alpha - smooth muscle actin correlates with worse clinical outcome .
We analyzed the relative abundance of ST3 and BM - 40 / SPARC transcripts by Northern blot , and their distribution by in situ hybridization , in normal mucosa , benign adenomas , and primary colorectal adenocarcinomas and their liver metastases .
Multiple studies are ongoing to determine the clinical benefits of aflibercept in cancer patients .
Directed EC migration is a central step in this process and depends on cellular signaling cascades that initiate and control the structural rearrangements .
The effects on aerobic glucose consumption , lactic acid formation , content of total ( T - SH ) and non - protein thiol groups ( NP - SH ) , endogenous and exogenous respiration and the level of ATP in tumour cells incubated in vitro were investigated .
There was no effect on overall protein biosynthesis or ER stress .
We believe that this group of RNAs , which map antisense to the ICP4 homolog gene , are latency - associated transcripts of MDV .
The knockdown of robo4 abrogated the chemotactic response of endothelial cells to serum but enhanced a chemokinetic response to Slit2 , while robo1 knockdown cells do not display chemotactic response to serum or VEGF .
In contrast , multicellular spheroids mimic heterogeneous cellular behavior and the consequent functional characteristics of in vivo solid tumors , and serve as important in vitro model to investigate tumor biology and responses to potential therapeutic agents .
In addition , most of these agents require instrumentation of the urinary tract and are delivered at a significant cost and potential morbidity to the patient .
Both basal ( 2 . 3 + / - 0 . 2 mumol / 100 g / minute , P = 0 . 061 ) and insulin - stimulated ( 8 . 5 + / - 1 . 9 mumol / 100 g / minute , P = 0 . 055 ) skeletal arm muscle glucose uptake rates were higher in control subjects than in patients .
WNT / TCF signaling through LEF1 and HOXB9 mediates lung adenocarcinoma metastasis .
Furthermore , this decreased expression was also observed in the other myeloproliferative disorders , polycythemia rubra vera ( PRV ) and essential thrombocythemia ( ET ) .
Circulating endothelial cells and their precursors declined and remained low in responders , whereas plasma vascular endothelial growth factor trended to decline in responding patients but increase in nonresponders .
Consistent with the decrease in lymph node metastasis , tumor lymphangiogenesis and expression of vascular endothelial growth factor C ( VEGF - C ) was significantly decreased in artemisinin - treated mice , as compared to control mice .
BACKGROUND : Diabetic patients have been reported to have impaired coronary collateral vessel growth , although they have excessive neovascularization in the retina .
High density of somatostatin receptors in veins surrounding human cancer tissue : role in tumor - host interaction ?
These results demonstrate endogenous gene regulation by BAG - 1L by potentiating nuclear hormone receptor function and suggest a role for BAG - 1L in 24 - hydroxylase regulation of vitamin D metabolism and the cellular response of oral keratinocytes to 1alpha , 25 - dihydroxyvitamin D3 .
Additional cofactors and mutational events may be important in the pathogenesis of invasive cervical cancers and may include chromosomal rearrangements , loss of constitutional heterozygosity , and proto - oncogene activation .
Insulin concentrations were significantly higher ( P less than 0 . 001 ) at baseline and at the 5 - , 45 - , 60 - , and 90 - minute time periods of the glucose tolerance test in dogs with lymphoma .
Several cell types in a tissue secrete IL - 8 .
In addition , expression of c - MYC from a constitutive promoter also abrogated the STAT3 - mediated arrest , and strikingly , cooperated with OSM to promote anchorage - independent growth ( AIG ) , a property associated with malignant transformation .
In contrast , intact beta2GPI does not bind to AS4 . 5 or inhibit its antiangiogenic activity .
An intracellular complex containing NRP1 and KDR was immunoprecipitated from EC by anti - NRP1 antibodies only in the presence of VEGF165 .
Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) , like other DNA tumor viruses , induces morphological transformation of cells in vitro and stimulates host cell macromolecular synthesis in infected cells .
In order to study whether ATX expression affects motility - dependent processes such as invasion and metastasis , we stably transfected full - length ATX cDNA into two non - expressing cell lines , parental and ras - transformed NIH3T3 ( clone7 ) cells .
As a result , cells are protected from apoptosis and senescence while becoming highly sensitive to glucose deprivation .
High expression of c - Ski has been found in some cancers , including gastric cancer .
Immunoblotting and immunostaining studies demonstrated an upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) mostly along the endothelium lining peritoneal blood vessels in long - term PD patients .
RESULTS : We demonstrated that cisplatin provoked a time - and dose - dependent decrease of HUVEC migration ; this effect was clearly independent from its well known cytotoxic activity .
Monoclonal antibody targeted therapy directed against EGF - R or Her - 2 / neu , the use of anti - sense oligonucleotides and oligodeoxynucleotides , and the application of tyrosine kinase and protein C - kinase inhibitors are currently being investigated .
N - myc has proapoptotic functions , yet it acts as an oncogene in neuroblastoma .
[ Treatment of the diabetic foot by hyperbaric oxygen ]
CONCLUSION : These results suggested that cisplatin induced a reduction of endothelial cell migration through an inhibition of MMP2 activity by downstream signal transduction pathways independent of JNK and p38 MAPK activation .
When goldfish erythrophores isolated from the skin by tissue digestion and centrifugation in a Percoll density gradient were transfected in a monolayer - culture with v - Ha - ras or v - src oncogene either singly or in combination with v - myc by means of calcium phosphate - DNA co - precipitation , there appeared a certain number of transformants manifesting a chromatoblast - like profile and tumorous phenotypes as seen in the capability for unlimited growth , and piling - up in a monolayer - culture or colony formation in semi - solid soft agar .
CD40 activation by CD154 may trigger diverse cellular responses , ranging from proliferation and differentiation to growth suppression and cell death , in normal and malignant cells .
Our results indicated that HTPB was a pan - HDAC inhibitor in suppressing cell viability specifically of lung cancer cells but not of the normal lung cells .
In vivo , tumors derived from cell clones expressing high levels of VEGF displayed significantly enhanced angiogenesis and more aggressive growth .
RSVT - 2 and RSVT2 / C cell lines were hyperproliferative and hyperinvasive when compared with the parental HTR8 cell line .
IMPLICATIONS : These findings also contrast with the demonstration of nm23 metastasis suppressor activity in murine melanoma and with the correlation of loss of nm23 expression in breast cancer with poor prognosis .
Nevertheless , the repression of VEGF - C was lost in mutant VHL cell lines under hypoxia .
These findings demonstrate that beclin 1 is a haplo - insufficient tumor - suppressor gene and provide genetic evidence that autophagy is a novel mechanism of cell - growth control and tumor suppression .
It is also clear that diffusible angiogenic stimuli can be released not only from most solid tumors , but also from at least three non - neoplastic cells .
The c - myc oncogene encodes for a transcriptional factor involved in many cellular processes such as proliferation , differentiation and apoptosis .
The effects of 5T4 expression on morphology and motility are separable since cells transfected with a truncated form of 5T4 cDNA in which the cytoplasmic domain is deleted reveal that the latter is necessary to abrogate actin / cadherin - containing contacts but does not influence the effects on motility .
The activated PI3K ( phosphoinositide 3 - kinase ) / Akt signalling pathway in LNCaP cells contributes to the phosphorylation of PFKFB2 at Ser466 and Ser483 , resulting in the constitutive activation of PFK - 2 ( 6 - phosphofructo - 2 - kinase ) activity .
BACKGROUND : The MDM2 oncoprotein promotes p53 degradation via ubiquitin , establishing negative feedback control of p53 and consequently affecting cell cycle arrest and apoptosis .
This suggested that CLA might inhibit angiogenesis in vivo .
CONCLUSIONS : DCE - MRI permits a noninvasive evaluation of tumour microcirculation and in particular of its dynamic characteristics and vascularity before and after antiangiogenic treatment .
The similarity between RhoA effects and thyroid transformation by Ras suggests that RhoA may act as a downstream effector of Ras ; in fact , the dominant negative RhoA N19 abolished the down - regulatory effect of Ras V12 over the Tg promoter .
Conversely , expression of pAd - T34A caused apoptosis in umbilical vein and dermal microvascular endothelial cells and resulted in caspase - 3 activity .
METHODS : Immunohistochemical staining of E - cadherin and alpha - and beta - catenin was performed using specimens from 143 patients with early gastric cancer .
These data indicate that artemisinin may be useful for the prevention of lymph node metastasis by downregulating VEGF - C and reducing tumor lymphangiogenesis .
The decrease in ATP level might be explained through the interaction of the amine oxide with the cell membrane integrity .
Pak1 - DLC1 interaction plays an essential role in cell survival , which depends on Pak1 ' s phosphorylation of DLC1 on Ser88 .
Thus , our results provide the first evidence that , in human breast carcinoma cells and in rat mammary carcinomas that have an induced increase in neu expression , a consistent and substantial increase in the expression of specific PTPases occurs .
During the further course no deterioration of the condition was observed .
The presence of microvascular proliferation leads to the histological diagnosis of glioblastoma multiforme .
The role of fibrinolysis in growth and metastasis was examined in Lewis lung carcinoma of mice .
Moreover , the conditioned medium from TFs was found to be able to promote ESCC tumor cell growth , migration , and invasion in vitro .
Immunohistochemistry scores for matrix metalloproteinase - 9 expression were significantly elevated compared to controls in scar endothelial cells and fibroblasts from 2 until 12 and 20 weeks , respectively .
To clarify the role of Ang - 2 for angiogenesis and tumor growth in a definite genetic experimental setting , the present study was aimed at comparatively studying the growth of different tumors in wild - type and Ang - 2 - deficient mice .
RESULTS : The diagnostic sensitivity of this new immunocytochemical approach reached 100 % for the eight malignant mesotheliomas investigated .
Receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) analysis gave 0 . 83 and 0 . 43 ROC area values for urine IL - 8 / Cr and serum IL - 8 , respectively .
The effect of translocations on the cellular myc gene in Burkitt lymphomas .
Vimentin expression , growth fractions ( GF ) , and estrogen receptor ( ER ) levels were determined for 90 untreated primary breast carcinomas .
Melanoma cells and human fibroblasts adhered to immobilized DC - 9 in a Mn ( 2 + ) - dependent fashion suggesting an integrin - mediated process .
On the other hand , hypermethylation of CpG islands in the final sigma gene was detected in 91 % ( 75 / 82 ) of breast tumors and was associated with lack of gene expression .
[ Autologous bone marrow stem cell or peripheral blood endothelial progenitor cell therapy in patients with peripheral limb ischaemia ]
Highly metastatic tumors with beta - catenin stabilization are very similar to a subset of human melanomas .
Controlled neo - endothelialisation is critical to the patency of small diameter vascular grafts .
These results demonstrate the importance of specific oncogene interaction in myeloid leukemogenesis .
Statistical analysis revealed a significantly inverse correlation between AI and IMVD ( r = - 0 . 53 , P less than 0 . 01 ) .
In addition , this study mechanistically implicates IRSp53 in the signaling nexus between activated Cdc42 and Mena , both of which have previously been shown to be involved with Robo4 signaling in endothelial cells .
Therefore , we used a targeted mutant mouse model to test the hypothesis that monoallelic deletion of beclin 1 promotes tumorigenesis .
To prevent adhesions , an experimental study was planned to designate the effects of low molecular weight ( LMW ) heparins and hyperbaric oxygen ( HBO ) therapy both on the formation of adhesions and wound healing .
Effects of dietary folate on ulcerative colitis - associated colorectal carcinogenesis in the interleukin 2 - and beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin - deficient mice .
These results show a remarkable selectivity of expression and function for laminin - 332 G45 in human SCC tumorigenesis and implicate it as a specific target for anticancer therapy .
[ mRNA expression of metastasis - suppressor gene nm23 in carcinoma of buccal mucosa . II . Quantitative reverse transcription PCR amplification ] .
In contrast , the neuroblastoma cells grown in the coculture conditioned media show no increase in apoptosis .
As pregnancy advanced the complexity of the vasculature increased : at 4 weeks the surface showed a pattern of ridges separated by troughs .
CXCR4 transcripts and proteins were detectable in all five gastric cancer cell lines .
Mutation analysis of latent membrane protein 1 ( LMP1 ) in Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) - induced B - cell immortalization revealed two transformation effector sites , TES1 and TES2 .
The growth factor was found to reside in mast cell granules and was identified as heparin by sequential purification and enzymatic degradation .
Similarly , the human INK4B locus encodes the p15 ( INK4B ) tumor suppressor and one alternatively spliced form , termed as p10 .
Apparently , several in vivo phosphorylation sites were recognized in vitro in both large T - antigen and p53 , but the presence of some artifactual sites could not be completely excluded .
The role of retinal microglial cells ( MCs ) in age - related macular degeneration ( AMD ) is unclear .
The therapeutic options available in this regard include measures that : down - regulate serum free IGF - I ; suppress the synthesis of mevalonic acid and / or certain derivatives thereof ; modulate arachidonate metabolism by inhibiting 5 - lipoxygenase , 12 - lipoxygenase , or COX - 2 ; antagonize the activation of AP - 1 transcription factors ; promote the activation of PPAR - gamma transcription factors ; and that suppress angiogenesis by additional mechanisms .
Tumorigenic hybrid derivatives contained lower numbers of chromosomes than the tetraploid parental hybrids .
In addition , although VEGF receptors were higher in tumors than normal kidney , there was a significant up - regulation of only flt - 1 ( P = 0 . 003 ) but not KDR ( P = 0 . 12 ) or flt - 4 ( P = 0 . 09 ) .
The findings suggest that elevated serum levels of S - 100beta , IL - 6 and IL - 10 reflect concurrent liver or bone metastases in melanoma .
This review provides basic information for the understanding of the biology of NF - kappaB and aims at presenting experimental data illustrating the involvement of NF - kappaB / Rel in pancreatic cancer .
In vitro studies , the results indicated that DATS induced morphological changes and induction of apoptosis in CT26 cells .
In the mammary carcinoma experiment , vascular permeability measured by means of B22956 / 1 in the animals treated with the antiangiogenic drug ( 0 . 0043317 + / - 0 . 0040418 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) ) was significantly less than in untreated animals ( 0 . 0090460 + / - 0 . 0043680 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) ) , whereas no significant difference was observed with Gd - DTPA - albumin ( 13 . 14 + / - 13 . 94 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) in treated animals and 18 . 07 + / - 11 . 92 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) in untreated animals ) .
p63 also correlated with advanced pathological stage , tumor size , and the expression of human telomerase reverse transcriptase ( hTERT ) , tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase 1 ( TIMP1 ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
A significant increase was observed in flt - 1 ( P less than 0 . 001 ) , KDR ( P = 0 . 02 ) , and flt - 4 ( P = 0 . 01 ) but not VEGF - B ( P = 0 . 82 ) or VEGF - C ( P = 0 . 52 ) expression in clear cell compared with chromophil ( papillary ) carcinomas .
In addition , filopodia formation , a feature of motile cells , was inhibited in PECAM - 1 - null endothelial cells as well as in human endothelial cells treated with either anti - PECAM - 1 antibody or PECAM - 1 siRNA .
Meanwhile , the adhesion and invasion ability of MCF - 7 cells were sharply inhibited when treated with different concentrations of curcumin .
In order to explore the mechanism of action of angiostatin and its mimetics , further work needs to be done to evaluate clinical applicability , specificity , and contraindications for this class of therapeutics .
Administration of 317615 x 2HCl along with carboplatin to animals bearing the SKOV - 3 tumor produced a 1 . 8 - fold increase in lifespan compared with carboplatin alone .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : Using a custom microarray , we analyzed 72 primary PETs , seven matched metastases , and 10 normal pancreatic samples .
Cytokines and growth factors induce tyrosine phosphorylation of signal transducers and activators of transcription ( STATs ) that directly activate gene expression .
Lysates of cells from the granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor ( GM - CSF ) - dependent myeloid leukemic cell line TF1 were separated into high molecular weight ( HMW ) pellets of intact DNA and supernatants of fragmented low MW ( LMW ) DNA , and the DNA purified from these fractions was quantified .
This was due primarily to restoring polarity : forced proliferation of polarized , nonmalignant cells did not induce VEGF expression and EC recruitment , whereas disrupting the architecture of growth - arrested , reverted cells did .
Mutations in the genes encoding the three other succinate dehydrogenase subunits ( SDHB , SDHC and SDHD ) have been identified in patients affected by familial or ' apparently sporadic ' paraganglioma and / or pheochromocytoma , an autosomal inherited cancer - susceptibility syndrome .
Chondrocyte - DegraPol constructs were cultured for 1 month with the medium before glycosaminoglycan assessment and histology .
Finally , mutating the Sp1 binding sites within the VEGF promoter or inhibiting ERK decreased VEGF promoter activity in M - CSF - treated human monocytes .
HT - 29 human colorectal cancer xenograft model was used and tumour growth , microvessel density and VEGF quantification were performed in tumours after the administration of metronomic CPT - 11 , L - OHP , 5 - FU and their simultaneous combination .
This study determines the relationship between preoperative serum sVAP - 1 levels and clinicopathological features and prognosis in gastric cancer .
PURPOSE : To determine the most efficient time point and concentration of topical corticosteroids in Candida albicans keratitis treated with fluconazole .
The early closure of all wounds implies that the rabbit ear model may not be valid for chronic wound studies .
Host - derived angiopoietin - 2 affects early stages of tumor development and vessel maturation but is dispensable for later stages of tumor growth .
These findings suggest that c - Ski overexpression promotes the growth of diffuse - type gastric carcinoma through induction of angiogenesis .
In agreement , induced overexpression of VEGF - C in LAPC - 9 enhanced tumor lymphangiogenesis leading to the development of metastatic lesions .
Expression of nm23 - H1 gene product in metastatic lymph nodes was also unrelated to patients survival .
There was no significant association between an increased risk of cervical cancer and polymorphisms of the death pathway genes FAS and FASL .
The high - mobility group A2 gene ( HMGA2 ) is one of the most frequently amplified genes in human cancers .
Similarly , mechanical overload - induced CCN1 gene expression in vivo was associated with nuclear localization of MRTF - A and enrichment of the CCN1 promoter with both MRTF - A and acetylated histone H3 .
The biologic relevance of increased NOS in long - term PD was demonstrated by enhanced nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity and a significant increase in vascular density and endothelial area in the peritoneum .
Because of this , and the virtual explosion of interest in pomegranate as a medicinal and nutritional product that has followed , this review is accordingly launched .
It is possible that the suppressive effect of GA on MMP - 2 / 9 might involve the inhibition of NF - kappaB activity .
Conversely , inducible over - expression of RASSF1C in breast cancer cells ( MDA - MB231 and T47D ) resulted in a small increase in cell proliferation .
In many diseases state body loses control over angiogenesis .
Members of the src and ras oncogene families supplant the epidermal growth factor requirement of BALB / MK - 2 keratinocytes and induce distinct alterations in their terminal differentiation program .
From the above , we concluded that carcinostatic agents may increase the metastatic ability of cancer cells in patients with cancer .
Therapeutic Electromagnetic Field ( TEMF ) and gamma irradiation on human breast cancer xenograft growth , angiogenesis and metastasis .
In addition , we found an increase of angiogenesis and HIF - 1alpha expression in TB4 - transgenic ( Tg ) mice as compared to wildtype mice .
Matrix metalloproteinases can collectively cleave all components of the extracellular matrix , with the endogenous tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 regulating their activity .
There was no significant difference of intraoperative blood loss between patients with vitamin K , ( 748 . 27 + / - 448 . 51 ) ml , and those without vitamin K , ( 767 . 31 + / - 547 . 89 ) ml ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
This desensitization was without effect upon the concentration causing half - maximal effect ( EC50 ) , dissociation constant ( Kd ) or number of PGF2 alpha receptors .
Induction of the MKP - 1 protein in the MCF10A - Myc and MDA - MB - 231 breast epithelial cell lines was also seen .
The p53 - dependent and p - 53 - independent functions of this protein are under many studies .
Using a retroviral gene transfer approach , we found that constitutive activation of MEK5 / ERK5 signaling strongly inhibits EC migration and results in massive morphological changes .
Additionally , bolus ( 3h ) doxorubicin incubation led to phosphorylation of p53 at serine 392 , induction of p21 , G2 arrest and increase of proapoptotic protein Bax .
VTAs can be divided into two groups : antiangiogenic agents and vascular - disrupting agents ( VDAs ) .
The development of hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) presumably occurs in multiple steps and is influenced by numerous factors .
Cisplatin reduces endothelial cell migration via regulation of type 2 - matrix metalloproteinase activity .
METHOD : The intratumor microvessel density ( IMVD ) , apoptotic index ( AI ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression were detected by immunohistochemistry SABC and terminal uridine deoxynucleotidyl transferase mediated nick end labeling ( TUNEL ) methods in34 LSCC patients .
Also , the combination of docetaxel and ATRA might allow a reduction in docetaxel doses and by this way may diminish docetaxel adverse effects while maintaining the therapeutic effect in patients with HRPC .
Multikinase inhibitor sorafenib inhibits proliferation and angiogenesis of tumors by suppressing the Raf / MEK / ERK signaling pathway and VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase .
Following intravenous administration of cationic lipid - DNA complexes ( lipoplexes ) into mice , transfection ( lipofection ) occurs predominantly in the lungs .
In vivo animal models of tissue injury and in vitro data also implicate syndecans in processes necessary for wound healing , including fibroblast and endothelial proliferation , cell motility , angiogenesis , and extracellular matrix organization .
According to these different functions , the role of c - Myc protein in cellular sensitivity to anti - cancer drugs is controversial .
This study suggests that angiogenin may be important in breast cancer progression and that , through its relationship with ER , it may be a target for tamoxifen .
Cell type - specific regulation of angiogenic growth factor gene expression and induction of angiogenesis in nonischemic tissue by a constitutively active form of hypoxia - inducible factor 1 .
The fact that some vitamins induce cell differentiation and / or growth inhibition in tumor cells in culture suggests that the use of these vitamins in cancer prevention has a cellular basis .
Left ventricular capillary length density ( mm / mm ( 3 ) ) increased gradually with alinidine administration ; a 15 % increase after 2 weeks and a 40 % increase after 3 weeks of alinidine treatment were documented .
We investigated here whether 6 popular antitumor compounds modify the cytotoxic activity of NaF against human squamous cell carcinoma ( HSC - 2 ) and human promyelocytic leukemia ( HL - 60 ) cell lines .
In contrast , we have previously reported that total nm23 messenger RNA ( mRNA ) expression is increased to similar levels in colon tumors of both high and low metastatic potential .
The expression of endothelial cell ( EC ) adhesion molecules involved in leukocyte - vessel wall interactions is suppressed in malignancies .
A 4 . 0 kb mRNA of the murine UFO homolog is expressed in a variety of different mouse tissues .
HIFs are also expressed during normal development ; for example , HIF - 2alpha is specifically expressed and appears to be involved in the development of the murine sympathetic nervous system ( SNS ) .
We examined the expression of nm23 - H1 gene product in surgically resected 46 pairs of primary lung cancers and metastatic lymph nodes by immunohistochemistry .
In summary , LPA is likely a key component for promoting ovarian metastasis in vivo .
To evaluate the effect of EPOX on the endothelial signaling pathway , we did immunoblotting , immunoprecipitation , and immunofluorescence analysis .
Taxol at 10 ( - 6 ) and 10 ( - 7 ) M completely inhibited angiogenesis , while Taxol 10 ( - 8 ) and 10 ( - 9 ) M and the heparin - steroid partially inhibited angiogenesis .
In contrast , no leukemia was observed with a myb IRES virus , with spliced vectors containing v - erbA alone or v - erbA in combination with v - myb , nor with erbA IRES and erbA / myb IRES viruses produced in the absence of helper virus .
[ Correlation between expression of vascular endothelial growth factor - C in tumor - associated macrophages and lymphatic metastasis in oral cancer ] .
A panel of antibodies was used for immunohistochemistry : CD34 / Ki - 67 , carbonic anhydrase IX , hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha ( HIF - 1alpha ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
In contrast , therapeutic angiogenesis is based on the concept that coronary collateral development may be stimulated by pharmacological or molecular means and can limit myocardial ischemia .
Up - regulation of fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 ( FGFR2 ) , which showed the most significant change , was detected in all six tested TFs compared with their paired normal fibroblasts .
PTHrP also influenced expression of the adhesion factor CXCR4 , and coexpression of PTHrP and CXCR4 was crucial for metastatic spread .
Sequence analysis of CDC4 / FBXW7 was carried out on gastric carcinoma cell lines and xenografts .
After 2 h incubation at 37 degrees C the drop in the ATP level was lower .
The accumulation was inhibited with a nonmetabolizable glucose analog , 2 - deoxy - d - glucose , through the suppression of radiation - induced phosphorylation of Akt in the reoxygenated regions .
It is also involved in the regulation of immune reactions , hematopoiesis and inflammatory state .
We examined whether betulin , a naturally abundant compound , has anticancer functions in human cancer cells .
CD56 + putative natural killer cell lymphomas : production of cytolytic effectors and related proteins mediating tumor cell apoptosis ?
Thus , genetic loss or inhibition of BRK1 is likely to be protective against tumor development due to proliferation and motility defects in affected cells .
Further investigations of this pathway with regard to preventing peritoneal fibrosis should be performed to maintain the integrity of the peritoneal membrane in peritoneal dialysis patients .
Western blot analyses showed an increase in levels of activated caspases ( caspase - 3 and - 7 ) and of cleaved poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase ( PARP ) by magnolol .
Together , these in vitro and in vivo studies are consistent with the concept that Ad vectors may provide a useful strategy for efficient local delivery of VEGF165 in the treatment of ischemic diseases .
Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) transforms B lymphocytes through the expression of the latent viral proteins EBNA and latent membrane protein ( LMP ) .
p53 does so through the induction of genes leading to growth arrest or apoptosis .
Ultraviolet B irradiation promotes tumorigenic and metastatic properties in primary cutaneous melanoma via induction of interleukin 8 .
BACKGROUND : The aim of this study was to investigate not only the intratumoral and peritumoral lymphatic vessel density ( ILD and PLD ) but also the expression of vascular endothelial growth factors ( VEGFs ) and to test their correlation with regional lymph nodal metastases in papillary thyroid microcarcinoma ( PTMC ) .
The use of juice , peel and oil have also been shown to possess anticancer activities , including interference with tumor cell proliferation , cell cycle , invasion and angiogenesis .
Furthermore , TGF - beta RII mutations in RER + tumors have been associated with decreased TGF - beta RII mRNA levels .
Tumor growth was determined and survival was recorded .
Several reports have indicated that tetracyclines can suppress tumor MPs as well .
After decapitation of the rats , trunk blood was obtained , and the ileum , liver , and kidney were removed for histological examination and for the measurement of malondialdehyde ( MDA ) and glutathione ( GSH ) levels , myeloperoxidase ( MPO ) activity , and collagen content .
Bmi - 1 over - expression in neural stem / progenitor cells increases proliferation and neurogenesis in culture but has little effect on these functions in vivo .
PEDF is an important negative regulator of angiogenic activity of aqueous humor .
Two small RNAs ( 0 . 9 and 0 . 75 kb ) , named Marek ' s disease virus ( MDV ) small RNAs ( MSRs ) and a 10 - kb RNA , all of which map antisense to the MDV ICP4 homolog gene , have been readily detected in MDCC - MSB1 MDV - transformed T - lymphoblastoid cells .
Latency was markedly increased and occurrence decreased in the p190 del C lines as compared with nonmutated p190 BCR / ABL transgenics .
Ha - ras cells also show less binding of phorbol ester than control cells , suggesting that elevation of DG causes partial down - regulation in addition to activation of protein kinase C .
Increased urokinase plasminogen activator ( uPA ) levels are increased in a number of malignancies and have been correlated with decreased disease - free interval and decreased overall survival .
Regardless how death is inflicted , every cancer cell must die , be it fast or slow .
The development and progression of colorectal cancer ( CRC ) is a multi - step process , and the Wnt pathways with its two molecular gladiators adenomatous polyposis coli ( APC ) and beta - catenin plays an important role in transforming a normal tissue into a malignant one .
It was the aim of this study to compare the value of measurement of glucose metabolism with that of measurement of 123I - IMT uptake for the non - invasive grading of brain tumours .
Four selected cell hybrids expressed the human transforming gene product p21 at levels of 10 to 30 % compared to 100 % in the transformed parental cells .
Role of thrombin in angiogenesis and tumor progression .
317615 x 2HCl is a promising new antiangiogenic agent that is in early phase clinical testing .
Dominant negative interference of transcription factor AP - 2 causes inhibition of ErbB - 3 expression and suppresses malignant cell growth .
SWAP - 70 is required for oncogenic transformation by v - Src in mouse embryo fibroblasts .
SUMMARY : Staging of colorectal cancer occurs after surgery and is based on the extent of disease invasiveness and dissemination .
Heparin - steroid conjugates : new angiogenesis inhibitors with antitumor activity in mice .
In addition , we showed that paclitaxel downregulated the phosphorylation of Akt in both HeLa and CaSki cells .
Transfection of SiHa cervical cancer cells with a plasmid expressing the TSP - 1 protein exhibited antiangiogenic activity in vitro and resulted in reduced tumor growth in severe combined immunodeficiency ( SCID ) mice , which was accompanied by a decrease in tumor vascularization and lower expressions of alpha - SMA and desmin than those in the vector controls .
Hypermethylation of final sigma is functionally important , because treatment of final sigma - non - expressing breast cancer cell lines with the drug 5 - aza - 2 ' - deoxycytidine resulted in demethylation of the gene and synthesis of final sigma mRNA .
Presymposium and postsymposium tests were administered , and respondent answers were compared between pediatric dentists and endodontists .
In the present study it was found that incubation of HepG2 cells with a low concentration of 3 - BrPA for a short period ( 150 microM for 30 min ) significantly affected both glycolysis and mitochondrial respiratory functions .
Previously , we reported that in vitro M - CSF induces the expression of biologically - active VEGF from human monocytes .
In addition , cross - talk between the IGF system and other growth factors and integrin receptors has been demonstrated .
PURPOSE : Antiangiogenic therapy is considered as an effective strategy for controlling the growth and metastasis of tumors .
Relationship of cellular immunity , cytokines and CRP with clinical course in breast cancer patients with endocrine - dependent distant metastases treated with immunotherapy .
Compared with control animals transfected with LacZ , site - specific transfection of phVEGF resulted in augmented collateral vessel development documented by serial angiography , and improvement in calf blood pressure ratio ( ischemic to normal limb ) , resting and maximum blood flow , and capillary to myocyte ratio .
Transcutaneous measurements of tissue pO2 showed elevation from 20 + / - 10 mm Hg during air breathing to 643 + / - 242 mm Hg while breathing pure oxygen at 2 . 5 ATA .
The aims of the present study were to compare , in vitro and in vivo , the antiangiogenic and antitumor activities of metronomic irinotecan ( CPT - 11 ) , oxaliplatin ( L - OHP ) and 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) in colorectal cancer and to investigate the metronomic combination of these drugs .
This work is again extremely significant for patients worldwide , as Dvorak ' s scientific research is leading his colleagues all over the world to examine how to treat a tumor through its blood supply .
Bevacizumab is a humanized immunoglobulin G1 monoclonal antibody to vascular endothelial growth factor that has been shown to have activity in malignant gliomas when combined with irinotecan .
Sunitinib induces apoptosis in pheochromocytoma tumor cells by inhibiting VEGFR2 / Akt / mTOR / S6K1 pathways through modulation of Bcl - 2 and BAD .
Tumor - specific DNA changes were detected in two additional HCCs , suggesting that the small region of chromosome 17p defined by the flanking cell DNA probe is commonly altered in hepatomas .
Understanding molecular mechanisms regulating angiogenesis may lead to novel therapies for ischemic disorders .
Angiogenin , a 14 . 2 kD polypeptide that was originally noted for its angiogenic activity , is now increasingly recognized to have a multiplicity of biological roles in both physiological and pathological conditions .
Whether sex steroids affect IL - 8 secretion of normal breast tissue or breast cancer is not known .
Although pancreatic cancer is the fifth common cause of cancer death in Western countries , current options in treatment enable a 5 - yr survival rate for all stages of less than 5 % .
DESIGN : Experimental study and interventional case series .
Selective inhibition of PI3K / Akt suppressed the NF - kappaB - induced BMP - 2 promoter activity .
Angiotensin II ( Ang II ) is a potent vasoconstrictor that increases concomitant with sFlt - 1 during pregnancy .
The experimental studies in vitro and in vivo were performed to investigate the effects of carcinostatic agents in the adhesion of cancer cells to endothelial cells .
Chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter - transcription factor II ( COUP - TFII ) plays an essential role in angiogenesis and development .
[ Effects of Epstein - Barr virus latent membrane protein 1 ( EBV - LMP1 ) on related factors of metastasis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line CNE1 ] .
Both groups received either 0 . 5 mg / ml linomide in drinking water or acidified water and were followed until tumor diameter reached 3 cm or for 4 weeks .
The tissue response to this biologic mesh is discussed in the context of recent reports on clinical hernia repair .
CONCLUSIONS : Indocyanine green dye - enhanced photocoagulation of CNV feeder vessels , facilitated by use of a device that permits real - time visualization of the choroidal circulation while aiming the treatment laser beam , appears to minimize the amount of energy applied to the fundus and the volume of fundus tissue affected by treatment , compared with other treatment modalities .
Moreover , outward growth migration model and transwell chamber assay were used to detect ECs migration .
Comparison between cells revealed different apoptosis kinetics : accumulation of cells in sub - G1 phase and poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase cleavage occurred earlier in LoVo - mycANS .
PURPOSE : This study was designed to reconcile our previous findings with the recent report of nm23 - H1 allelic deletion in human colon cancers associated with poor prognosis .
Transfection with hTERT alone , led to the immortalization of two out of three cultures of bone marrow - derived ECs ( BMECs ) .
Because the intravenously injected lipoplexes migrated within seconds to lungs , we checked whether the effects of immediate contact with serum correlate with lung lipofection efficiency of different DOTAP - based formulations .
These results suggest that CYR61 and CTGF may play a role in the progression of gliomas ; their levels at diagnosis may have prognostic significance ; and these proteins might serve as valuable targets for therapeutic intervention .
With a median follow - up of 8 . 4 months , the overall best response rate is 37 % ( 2 complete clinical response / complete clinical response unconfirmed and 9 partial response ) , with 22 % achieving stable disease .
PURPOSE : The comparative study of differentially expression of protein profiles of hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines with various metastasic potential and screening key molecules related to hepatocellular carcinoma metastasis and recurrence .
We have evaluated the effect of thalidomide on VEGF secretion , cell migration , adhesion as well as in capillary formation of human endothelial cell line EA . hy 926 .
PURPOSE : Clinical studies have demonstrated that intensive insulin therapy causes a transient worsening of retinopathy .
In vivo p53 response and immune reaction underlie highly effective low - dose radiotherapy in follicular lymphoma .
We utilized two autologous human melanoma cell lines , IV Cl 1 and IV Cl 3 , which displayed qualitatively different metastatic phenotypes following subdermal inoculation into nude mice .
Inoculation of these cells in athymic mice decreases mouse spleen natural killer ( NK ) cell activity .
Surgical specimens from 20 cases of OSCC with lymph node metastasis , 20 cases of OSCC without lymph node metastasis , and 10 cases of normal mucosa were examined by immunohistochemistry .
These results show that matrix metalloproteinases are present at elevated levels during early wound healing , when angiogenesis occurs , and suggest that matrix metalloproteinase - 9 may play a significant role .
Retinal microangiopathies overlying pigment epithelial detachment in age - related macular degeneration .
Six of the 8 patients whose disease progressed have died .
Our objectives were to determine the safety and efficacy of rofecoxib in treating acute haemarthrosis , chronic synovitis , target joints and pain .
BACKGROUND : Patients with recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa ( RDEB ) have deficiencies of collagen type VII and have elevated levels of fibroblast collagenase , and a greatly increased risk of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma .
Adenovirus 5 E1A enhances histone deacetylase inhibitors - induced apoptosis through Egr - 1 - mediated Bim upregulation .
Groups 3 and 4 were vitamin E and untreated controls .
Tetracyclines are antimicrobial agents that can suppress MP activity in a variety of tissues , including gingiva , bone , and cartilage .
Furthermore , transient transfection studies with NIH3T3 cells indicated that the expression of activated Galpha ( 12 ) readily increased the expression of SET protein by 24 h .
To determine how p18 and p27 genetically interact with Men1 , the tumor suppressor gene mutated in familial MEN1 , we characterized p18 - Men1 and p27 - Men1 double mutant mice .
Here we analyzed LDH5 protein expression in a well characterized large cohort of primary lung cancers in correlation to clinico - pathological data and its possible impact on patient survival .
Very recently , sunitinib has been shown to be an active agent for the treatment of malignant pheochromocytomas .
Finally , serum - free conditioned medium from MDA - 231 cells inhibited the NK cell activity of human blood lymphocytes .
In the meantime preventive use of bisphosphonates in patients without any bone metastases should not be used outside the scope of a clinical trial .
Mathematical models and empirical observations are used to define the adaptive advantage of aerobic glycolysis that would explain its remarkable prevalence in human cancers .
We have , therefore , measured the mRNA level of VEGF - B and VEGF - C together with their receptors by RNase protection assay ( RPA ) in 26 normal kidney samples and 45 renal cell cancers .
We also demonstrated that Evi - 1 represses Smad - induced transcriptional activation by recruiting CtBP as a corepressor .
Several possible explanations for the relationship of these changes to the enhancement of DMBA carcinogenesis include : radiation blocking normal capillary proliferative and / or dilatory responses to inflammation secondary to neoplastic changes ; radiation - induced focal increases in the pericapillary connective tissue histohematic barrier , stimulating angiogenesis but reducing nutrient diffusion ; radiation exposures sensitizing vascular endothelium to subsequent angiogenic stimulation from premalignant tissues ; DMBA vascular and epithelial effects partially or completely blocking radiation effects on epithelial and / or endothelial cells ; and radiation damage to vessel walls partially or fully inhibiting normal physiologic mechanisms of repairing DMBA damage to the vessels .
The NBD peptide suppressed metastasis and tongue tumor growth in GSAS / N5 - inoculated mice , and was accompanied by the downregulation of the NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules in engrafted tongue tumors .
The malate - citrate cycle was studied during aerobic glycolysis and glutaminolysis in a strain of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells which showed a very low malate - aspartate shuttle system activity .
These results suggest that point mutations in p53 and ras are not associated with pituitary tumorigenesis , however , point mutations of the H - ras gene may be important in the formation and or growth of pituitary metastases .
Small interfering ribonucleic acid specific for MCT 1 and 2 reduced expression of these isoforms in U - 87 MG cells to barely detectable levels and reduced lactate efflux by 30 % individually and 85 % in combination , with a concomitant decrease of intracellular pH by 0 . 6 units ( a fourfold increase in intracellular H ( + ) ) .
Paclitaxel treatment resulted in MAPK activation and apoptosis of MDA - MB - 231 breast cancer cells , and both processes were inhibited by Dex pretreatment .
This down - regulation is accompanied by a rapid cleavage of Tie1 and binding of the cleaved Tie1 45 kDa endodomain to Tie2 .
Patients with hyperfibrinogenemia showed worse clinical outcome in T2 gastric cancer , however , there was no correlation of plasma fibrinogen level with prognosis in T3 / T4 gastric cancer .
In addition , the endostatin vector treatment completely prevented the formation of pulmonary micrometastases in Lewis lung carcinoma ( P = 0 . 0001 ) .
The results demonstrate the possibility to generate monospecific divalent and tetravalent antibodies , immunocytokines , and dual specificity tetravalent antibodies .
In this study , we used two inflammatory agents , IL - 1beta and phorbol myristic acetate , to activate PKC isozymes and specific inhibitors of PKCalpha ( Go6976 ) and PKCbeta ( hispidin ) to distinguish how each of these isoform ( s ) controls angiogenesis , wound healing , and permeability .
None of the transformants differentiated into melanophores or iridophores or other neural crest derivatives as seen in goldfish erythrophoroma cells .
The role of the p53 pathway in Runx2 / MYC tumors was explored on a p53 heterozygote background .
Glycolysis was affected by pharmacological regulation of c - Myc and HIF - 1alpha .
A similar trend was noted in the SCCVII tumor model .
We performed comparative proteomic and pathway analysis of four human metastatic HCC cell lines to identify metastasis - associated proteins .
RESULTS : VEGF expression was observed in 58 . 3 % , and p53 protein expression was observed in 61 . 7 % of the 60 patients .
IUGR fetuses are both hypoxic and hypoglycaemic , and have reduced insulin and insulin - like growth factor - 1 ( IGF - 1 ) , and elevated concentrations of lactate .
Functional studies by ectopically constitutive expression of Dss1 in JB6 Cl 41 - 5a preneoplastic cells strongly increased focus formation and proliferation of these cells and enhanced efficiency of neoplastic transformation of the cells in soft agar .
It is considered that resection of the primary tumor induces activation of systemic angiogenesis and enhances progression of remote metastasis .
To investigate the potential role of BI - 1 in promoting cell growth and tumorigenesis , in the present study we overexpressed the BI - 1 gene in NIH3T3 cells using the lentivirus - mediated gene expression system .
Although implicated as a tumor suppressor , its role in sporadic cancer is uncertain .
Administration of thalidomide at the concentration of 0 . 01 microM increased cell migration , while at 10 microM , it decreased cell migration .
We show here that p10 , which arises from the use of an alternative splice donor site within intron 1 , is conserved in the mouse genome and is widely expressed in mouse tissues .
Furthermore , the Runx2 / MYC combination overcomes the requirement for genetic inactivation of the p53 pathway in vivo .
3H - Cytosine arabinoside incorporation into the DNA was enhanced 1 . 33 - to 18 . 3 - fold over respective controls in 14 of 17 patients .
METHODS : The expression of five facilitative glucose transporters , Glut - 1 ( erythrocyte type ) , Glut - 2 ( liver type ) , Glut - 3 ( brain type ) , Glut - 4 ( muscle / fat type ) , and Glut - 5 ( small intestine type ) , was studied by immunohistochemistry of paraffin sections from 12 primary human breast cancers and 8 lymph node metastases from 2 patients .
The patient received a prescription for 100 mg Ultralan to be taken daily for 3 days and then tapered in 3 day steps .
In contrast , ectopic TSP - 1 expression in SiHa cells has little effect on the invasive ability of the NIH3T3 cells .
N - myc augments death and attenuates protective effects of Bcl - 2 in trophically stressed neuroblastoma cells .
Emerging evidence shows that oncogenes that drive the cancer - promoting signals also drive the altered metabolism .
Orthogonal polarization spectral imaging showed no difference in functional capillary density between the scaffolds cultured on chorioallantoic membranes .
The expression of 14 - 3 - 3zeta was upregulated in stage I NSCLC .
The current study was conducted to characterize the effect of insulin on retinal VEGF gene expression in vitro and in vivo .
Induction of tumor lymphangiogenesis by vascular endothelial growth factor - D may play an important role in promoting tumor metastasis to regional lymph nodes and these processes can be inhibited by inactivation of the VEGFR - 3 signaling pathway .
Mast cells were found to be unique among the peritoneal leukocytes by virtue of their capacity to enhance profoundly the proliferation of a variety of tumors in vitro .
Also , serum VEGF was significantly higher in patients with PDR than in those without DR .
This pathway has been implicated to play a role in the pathogenesis of cancer and in embryonic blood vessel development .
In addition to altering metastasis , beta - catenin levels control tumor differentiation and regulate both MAPK / Erk and PI3K / Akt signaling .
Clinical studies have shown elevated serum IL - 6 concentrations in patients with endometrial cancer , non - small cell lung carcinoma , colorectal cancer , renal cell carcinoma , breast and ovarian cancer .
Treatment with suberoylanilide hydroxamide ( SAHA ) , a histone deacetylase ( HDAC ) inhibitor , causes dose - dependent hTERT reporter activation , mimicking HMGA2 overexpression .
One cell line ( ESM - 1 ) derived from the erythrophores transfected with src / myc grew successively over nine months , indicating its acquisition of immortality .
Enhanced IGF - 1 expression improves smooth muscle cell engraftment after cell transplantation .
During these processes , proteolytic activities of tumor and stromal cells modify the extracellular matrix to produce a microenvironment suitable for their growth and migration .
Hedgehog signaling : networking to nurture a promalignant tumor microenvironment .
14 - 3 - 3zeta might be used as prognostic biomarkers for NSCLC .
In this study , 14 of 18 lung cancer cell lines ( 78 % ) expressed CD40 on their surface .
An anti - vascular endothelial growth factor strategy may reduce tissue damage associated with radiation vasculopathy and neuropathy .
When BB - 94 , a matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor , was added to the culture medium of Ras - expressing cells , it caused a cell aggregation phenotype similar to that caused by TEL expression .
Phosphorylation of Thr654 by protein kinase C decreases high affinity EGF binding and EGF - stimulated tyrosine protein kinase activity , providing a mechanism for heterologous regulation of the EGF receptor by tumor promoters and other ligand X receptor complexes .
PURPOSE : The poor prognosis associated with lung cancer is related to the high incidence of regional and distant metastasis .
Perlecan was also found to stimulate endothelial cell proliferation in vitro over a period of 6 days in the presence of plasma proteins and fibroblastic growth factor 2 ( FGF - 2 ) , however in the absence of FGF - 2 endothelial cell growth could not be maintained during this period .
Balb / c 3T3 cells carrying this NPC - LMP gene showed a transformed cell morphology and were tumorigenic in nude mice .
To explore the potential of chemotherapy directed at the tyrosine kinase of p185neu , we have found that emodin ( 3 - methyl - 1 , 6 , 8 - trihydroxyanthraquinone ) , a tyrosine kinase inhibitor , suppresses autophosphorylation and transphosphorylation activities of HER - 2 / neu tyrosine kinase , resulting in tyrosine hypophosphorylation of p185neu in HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells .
Angiogenesis is essential for tumor growth and metastasis .
After tumor implantation the animals were examined weekly during several months for the appearance of metastases .
The association of fibrinogen levels with clinical / pathological findings and clinical outcome was evaluated .
For efficacy studies , nude mice bearing orthotopically implanted tumors derived from breast cancer cell line MDA - MB - 435 were treated with galectin - 3C or a vehicle control i . m . twice daily for 90 days .
BACKGROUND : The anabolic properties of insulin have been suggested for use to reverse malnutrition associated with cancer .
Anoikis was preceded by induction and transloction of a 45 - kDa clusterin isoform to the nucleus .
The results were comparative to those of Northern blotting of the same cases .
Fibroblast growth factor - 2 ( FGF - 2 ) has been reported to play multiple roles in different biological processes during development of the central nervous system ( CNS ) .
Overexpression of Evi - 1 increased Pbx1 expression in hematopoietic stem / progenitor cells .
BAG - 1 is expressed ubiquitously in human cells as three major isoforms of 50 kDa ( BAG - 1L ) , 46 kDa ( BAG - 1M ) and 36 kDa ( BAG - 1S ) from a single mRNA .
The disintegrin - like and cysteine - rich domains of ADAM - 9 mediate interactions between melanoma cells and fibroblasts .
PURPOSE : To assess the safety and effectiveness of photodynamic therapy ( PDT ) with verteporfin for subfoveal choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) secondary to pathologic myopia ( PM ) .
BACKGROUND : We suggest that surgical extirpation of primary breast cancer among other effects accelerates relapse for some premenopausal node - positive patients .
BACKGROUND : CDC4 / FBXW7 , encoding a ubiquitin ligase , maps to 4q32 and has been implicated as a tumor suppressor gene and therapeutic target in many tumor types .
A reduction in the expression of collagen XII might have profound effects on the stability of the extracellular matrix of transformed cells .
NIH3T3 transfectant containing human K - ras oncogene shows enhanced metastatic activity after in vivo tumor growth or co - culture with fibroblasts .
Finally , CD47 signaling may suppress angiogenesis because 4N1K significantly inhibited endothelial cell migration and tube formation in vitro .
The results were analysed using quantitative immunohistochemical analysis .
Glucose and lactate metabolism in C6 glioma cells : evidence for the preferential utilization of lactate for cell oxidative metabolism .
ACA treatment resulted in changes in morphology and a dose - dependent suppression of cell viability .
The antiangiogenic agent linomide inhibits the growth rate of von Hippel - Lindau paraganglioma xenografts to mice .
CONCLUSIONS : PE is a useful prognostic predictor of CR and OS for AML / MDS patients .
Moreover , in advanced TNM stages , cases without metastasis had higher KISS1 gene expression compared to those with lymph node metastasis ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
We observed a significant up - regulation of VEGF - B ( P = 0 . 002 ) but not VEGF - C ( P = 0 . 3 ) in neoplastic kidney compared with normal tissues .
The UFO proto - oncogene maps to human chromosome 19q13 . 1 and is transcribed into two 5 . 0 kb and 3 . 2 kb mRNAs in human bone marrow and human tumor cell lines .
Furthermore , p53 overexpression by tumors was almost twice as common in the RSCM group as in the RSCB group .
Vitamins regulate gene expression and induce differentiation and growth inhibition in cancer cells .
A STAT3 - mediated metabolic switch is involved in tumour transformation and STAT3 addiction .
Endothelial cell expression of c - src was constitutively elevated after stable infection with a retroviral vector containing the c - src coding sequence .
Perfusion and permeability parameters of the implanted tumours were evaluated by using two contrast media ( B22956 / 1 and Gd - DTPA37 - albumin ) to establish response to treatment with two different antiangiogenic drugs ( tamoxifen and SU6668 ) .
However , as only a fraction of cells in advanced Kaposi ' s sarcoma lesions express vGPCR , it is unclear whether this unique viral oncogene contributes to Kaposi ' s sarcoma progression .
This ultimately deprives VEGF receptors of an essential molecule required for promoting the disruption of endothelial cell - cell contacts and paracellular permeability .
However , the expression level of E - cadherin had an inverse relationship with both differentiation level of the tumor and lymphatic vessel invasion ( p = 0 . 0430 and 0 . 0320 , respectively ) .
Minimal contribution of marrow - derived endothelial precursors to tumor vasculature .
Bovine lactoferrin , a multifunctional glycoprotein , has been shown to strongly inhibit development of azoxymethane ( AOM ) - induced rat colon tumors .
The mechanisms that confer this rapid metastatic capacity to lung tumors are unknown .
In addition , we report here the identification of two RNA transcripts of type II - like tumor HK of approximately 5 . 5 and approximately 4 . 0 kb in these cancer cells lines , including muscle - derived L6 myoblast cells .
Fas ( APO - 1 / CD95 ) is a type I membrane protein that is capable of initiating an apoptosis signaling pathway when bound to its ligand ( FasL ) .
RESULTS : The overall incidence of BRAF mutation ( 89 / 183 , 49 % ) was very similar to other large studies of Caucasian populations .
We generated monoclonal antibodies that target FGF - BP protein and used them as a tool to evaluate frequency and pattern of FGF - BP expression during the malignant progression of pancreas and colorectal carcinoma in archival tissue samples .
These results indicate that HIF - 1 functions as a master regulator of angiogenesis by controlling the expression of multiple angiogenic growth factors and that adenovirus - mediated expression of a constitutively active form of HIF - 1alpha is sufficient to induce angiogenesis in nonischemic tissue of an adult animal .
Although the exact mechanisms underlying the Warburg effect are unclear , the existing evidence suggests that increased glycolysis plays an important role in support malignant behavior of cancer cells .
Using a construct containing the VEGF promoter linked to a luciferase reporter , we found that a mutation reducing HIF binding to the VEGF promoter had no significant effect on luciferase production induced by M - CSF stimulation .
Surprisingly , the level of leukocyte adhesion in ear venules of mice with a large flank tumor was also reduced significantly .
Moreover , regional administration of L - NAME , in combination with TNF and melphalan , was studied in an isolated limb perfusion ( ILP ) model using BN175 soft - tissue sarcomas .
All genes except those encoding angiotensinogen and epoxide hydrolase ( that were decreased ) , and 12 - lipoxygenase and vascular endothelial growth factor ( that showed no change ) , were significantly up - regulated in GK islets .
METHODS : In this study , we screened the expression profile of AQP0 - 12 in breast cancer tissues and corresponding normal tissues by RT - PCR , Western blotting and immunohistochemistry .
UV - B - induced IL - 8 was constitutively expressed 60 days after irradiation in tumors implanted in mice .
Early relapse with distant metastasis often is observed in patients with cancer after resection of the primary tumor .
NO is synthesized through three isoforms of NO synthase ( NOS ) .
We used a cellular model of tumor invasion to investigate the effect of activated platelets on the human ovarian cancer cell line , SKOV3 .
In this study , we have established stable cell lines overexpressing PLD1 and PLD2 from fibroblast cells .
The angiogenic switch occurred in early stages of pre - malignant tumor formation , and tumor angiogenesis was significantly enhanced in TSP - 2 - deficient mice .
In conclusion , this study identifies new functional properties for CD154 , which are potentially relevant for the growth and dissemination of renal carcinoma cells .
The aim of this study was to investigate the expression profile of AQPs in human breast cancer and its significance .
Androgen stimulates glycolysis for de novo lipid synthesis by increasing the activities of hexokinase 2 and 6 - phosphofructo - 2 - kinase / fructose - 2 , 6 - bisphosphatase 2 in prostate cancer cells .
The human T - cell leukemia viruses HTLV - I and HTLV - II are unique among the transforming retroviruses of vertebrates in their ability to transform human T cells in vitro and in their close association with human malignancies ( T - cell lymphomas and leukemia ) .
Thirty uterine cervix specimens sampled following conization or total hysterectomy were studied using histology , histoenzymology ( vessel phosphatase alkaline activity ) , and immunohistochemistry ( demonstration of laminin and type IV collagen in epithelium and vessel basement membranes ) .
Expression of osteoprotegerin and RANK ligand in breast cancer bone metastasis .
In the present study , a novel inhibitor of angiogenesis was synthesized by covalently linking a nonanticoagulating derivative of heparin , heparin adipic hydrazide ( HAH ) , by an acid - labile bond to the antiangiogenic steroid , cortisol .
A series of our studies revealed that for activation of the invasion pathway of EGFR , it is prerequisite that Arf6 and AMAP1 both are highly overexpressed , and that EGFR is activated by ligands .
RESULTS : As of November 30 , 1994 , the median follow - up period was 12 years .
Furthermore , we found that RASSF1C over - expression enhances T47D cell invasion / migration in vitro .
TAMs counts was related to VEGF - C expression in OSCC ( r = 0 . 370 , P < 0 . 05 ) .
Although short treatments with LeTx only modestly affected cell proliferation , sustained treatment markedly reduced cell numbers .
After MNNG administration , rats were investigated by endoscopic observation , visualization of microvascular structure , and estimation of lectin binding sites .
However , owing to the long latency of tumor formation and the sporadic occurrence of bona fide mammary cancers , we conclude that the Tsg101 protein has only weak oncogenic properties .
Aberrant angiogenesis leads to a variety of diseases , such as ischemia and cancer .
The subsequent identification of germline mutations in the gene encoding fumarase - - another TCA cycle enzyme - - in a new hereditary form of susceptibility to renal , uterine and cutaneous tumors has highlighted the potential role of the TCA cycle and , more generally , of the mitochondria in cancer .
The cells invasion was demonstrated by transwell assay .
Autotaxin ( ATX ) , an exo - nucleotide pyrophosphatase and phosphodiesterase , was originally isolated as a potent stimulator of tumor cell motility .
SMI activities were examined in vivo by supplementing the growth medium of zebrafish embryos expressing green fluorescent protein under the control of the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 2 promoter .
The p75 receptor belongs to the tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) family of death receptors and has been suggested as a receptor that mediates apoptosis in neuronal and NB cells .
Mutant mice lacking both cyclin - dependent kinase ( CDK ) inhibitors p18 ( Ink4c ) and p27 ( Kip1 ) develop a tumor spectrum reminiscent of human multiple endocrine neoplasia ( MEN ) syndromes .
Altogether , these results suggest a new approach to promote angiogenesis by controlling Notch signaling , and may provide new options to treat patients with diseases that diminish angiogenic responsiveness .
This review condenses the latest findings on the signaling pathways that are activated and / or regulated by molecules generated from Hedgehog signaling in cancer and cites promising clinical interventions .
PROCEDURE : To investigate the effect of p75 expression in NB , we transfected the p75 cDNA into SH - SY5Y cells , an NB cell line lacking expression of both p75 and TrkA .
Activating mutations of the TSH - R gene have been detected in a group of differentiated carcinomas with high basal adenylyl cyclase activity , and in a few cases of hyperfunctioning thyroid carcinoma .
RESULTS : Blood vessels initiated growth and elongated from the fat tissue fragments over 15 days .
By 21 days post - injury , all activity had returned to near baseline level .
Surprisingly , when injected into chicken embryos in the presence of helper virus , both viruses induced an erythroleukemia in about half of the animals .
The effect of swainsonine ( active compound of locoweed and a potential anticancer drug ) on vascular development showed no differences in sinusoidal diameters at 7 weeks , but a decrease in capillary density was noted .
Western blot was performed to detect the effect of curcumin on the expression of uPA .
Suppression of tumor growth by the 3 ' untranslated region of mel - 18 in 3Y1 cells transformed by the E6 and E7 genes of human papillomavirus type 18 .
This review summarizes the current state of the art concerning the involvement of aberrant Pten function in the development of different biologic features of malignant gliomas , such as loss of cell - cycle control and uncontrolled cell proliferation , escape from apoptosis , brain invasion , and aberrant neoangiogenesis .
The objective of this article is to explain radiologic patterns of benign and malignant breast lesions ( masses , microcalcifications ) based on histological correlations .
Bee venom induces apoptosis and inhibits expression of cyclooxygenase - 2 mRNA in human lung cancer cell line NCI - H1299 .
No ocular or systemic bevacizumab - related side effects were observed .
METHODOLOGY AND RESULTS : In this study , we demonstrate the molecular mechanism of M - CSF - induced VEGF production .
c - Met expression is regulated by Mitf in the melanocyte lineage .
To investigate this possibility , we studied the influence of bovine lactoferrin on Fas - mediated apoptosis with regard to expression of Fas , activation of caspase - 8 and caspase - 3 , and DNA fragmentation in the colon mucosa of AOM - treated rats .
The antiproliferative effect of HAH - cortisol on endothelial cells appeared independent of the glucocorticoid activity of the steroid since HAH conjugated to 5 beta - pregnane - 3 alpha , 17 alpha , 21 - triol - 20 - one , a steroid lacking glucocorticoid or mineralocorticoid activity , was even more effective at inhibiting DNA synthesis by murine pulmonary capillary endothelial cells than was HAH - cortisol .
Deletion of Tip30 leads to rapid immortalization of murine mammary epithelial cells and ductal hyperplasia in the mammary gland .
Recent data suggest that activation of the integrin - associated protein CD47 promotes neuronal cell death .
Desensitization of prostaglandin F2 alpha - stimulated inositol phosphate generation in NIH - 3T3 fibroblasts transformed by overexpression of normal c - Ha - ras - 1 , c - Ki - ras - 2 and c - N - ras genes .
Their relevance in cancer prevention .
The cortex within 100 microns of the capsule had little vascularization .
High - grade clear cell renal cell carcinoma has a higher angiogenic activity than low - grade renal cell carcinoma based on histomorphological quantification and qRT - PCR mRNA expression profile .
An assay to measure angiogenesis in human fat tissue .
Using human neuroblastoma cell line , SK - N - MC , we found that treatment of these cells with FGF - 2 resulted in early induction of both Id - 1 mRNA and protein .
Differential expression and mutation of NME genes in autologous cultured human melanoma cells with different metastatic potentials .
The mode of Ca2 + entry regulating cell shape is unknown .
The dominant view is that neutrophils display exclusively antitumor properties .
Integrins and growth factors are capable of activating the ras / MAP kinase pathway in vitro , yet how these signals influence endothelial cells during angiogenesis is unknown .
Most of the tumor - suppressive properties of Pten are dependent on its lipid phosphatase activity , which inhibits the phosphatidylinositol - 3 ' - kinase ( PI3K ) / Akt signaling pathway through dephosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol - ( 3 , 4 , 5 ) - triphosphate .
Molecular modeling studies suggested that mutation N172D , located within the substrate binding region , is mainly responsible for impaired mutCK1delta activity .
Melissoidesin G ( MOG ) is a new diterpenoid purified from Isodon melissoides , a plant used in Chinese traditional medicine as antitumor and anti - inflammatory agents .
To test this possibility , CD2 / F ( 1 ) mice were placed on synthetic diets containing 0 , 1 , or 2 % CLA for 6 weeks , before angiogenic challenge by s . c . injection with an angiogenic gel substrate ( Matrigel pellet assay ) .
During progressive disease no change was observed in the former parameters , concomitant with a significant increase in IL - 10 ( P = 0 . 020 ) and a significant decrease in TGFbeta1 ( P = 0 . 023 ) .
At other times , both the metastases and the primary tumor may spontaneously regress without treatment .
Patients with liver and / or bone metastases had significantly higher median concentrations of S - 100beta , IL - 6 and IL - 10 than those with only skin , nodal and / or lung involvement .
There was positive correlation between PTEN mRNA expression and LOH of microsatellites in advanced gastric carcinomas .
Therefore , genetic instability plays an important role in inflammation - associated cancers .
In addition to p16 ( INK4A ) , the INK4A locus encodes a splice variant , termed p12 - - specifically expressed in human pancreas - - and ARF , a protein encoded by an alternative reading frame that acts as a tumor suppressor through the p53 pathway .
There was no difference in fat encapsulation , necrosis , hemorrhage , or exudate between prostheses .
There was also a statistically significant difference regarding fibrosis between groups 1 and 4 .
Vascular endothelial growth factor - B and vascular endothelial growth factor - C expression in renal cell carcinomas : regulation by the von Hippel - Lindau gene and hypoxia .
Additionally , this sequence shares some homology with the DNA binding domain of GCN4 and c - jun protein .
We have found that sanguinarine alters the morphology and reduces the viability of MG - 63 and SaOS - 2 human osteosarcoma cell lines in concentration - and time - dependent manner .
To assess the lymphoid tumorigenic potential of bcl - 2 , mice of five independent strains expressing a bcl - 2 transgene in B and / or T cells were monitored for disease up to 12 months of age .
In the trans - splenic hepatic metastasis model using nude mice , the augmentation of cancer metastasis was observed by the treatment of carcinostatic agents .
A transcript from the long terminal repeats of a murine retrovirus associated with trans activation of cellular genes .
Formation of new bone during vertical distraction osteogenesis of the human mandible is related to the presence of blood vessels .
This analysis revealed a total of 22 protein - spots whose expression was altered by more than 3 - folds .
Ectopic expression of Cdc25a prevented UV - induced S - phase arrest in keratinocytes lacking Erbb2 activity , demonstrating that maintenance of Cdc25a by Erbb2 suppresses cell cycle arrest .
Impaired apoptosis of pulmonary endothelial cells is associated with intimal proliferation and irreversibility of pulmonary hypertension in congenital heart disease .
Long - term carcinogen exposure exerts continuous pressure on key mechanisms that repair or eliminate carcinogen - damaged cells giving rise to selective failures that contribute to lung cancer .
Excluding N - stage , vascular grade was the only independent prognostic factor ( P = 0 . 007 ) .
These data indicate that endogenous IL - 1 is a mediator of ischaemic and excitotoxic brain damage , and that inhibitors of IL - 1 action may be of therapeutic value in the treatment of acute or chronic neuronal death .
A high TP expression at tumor sites is correlated with tumor growth , induction of angiogenesis , and metastasis .
HTPB delayed lung metastasis of 4T1 mouse breast cancer cells .
In this study , the expression of the cadherin - catenin complex and p53 was studied in early gastric cancer .
One example of particular interest is the Keap1 - Nrf2 system since , according to recent studies , it has turned out to be ambivalent .
This review will discuss the regulation of expression of IGF - 1 , IGF - 1R , and IGF binding proteins in the vasculature and summarize evidence implicating involvement of this system in vascular diseases .
These findings suggest that poorly vascularized neuroblastomas become immature and maintain a more aggressive phenotype , which possibly could involve a sustained stabilization and activation of HIF - 2alpha .
Injection of VEGF - neutralizing antibodies over a 2 - week period completely blocked alinidine - stimulated angiogenesis .
When melanin biosynthesis is genetically disrupted in skin of white complexion , we propose that this cycle operates as a promoter of melanocyte proliferation .
IL - 17F deficient Apc ( Min / + ) mice showed a significant decrease in immune cell infiltration in the lamina propria .
In the present study this region is shown to contain a gene encoding a protein of 40 kilodaltons in HTLV - I and 37 kilodaltons in HTLV - II .
However , treating EU - 6 with anti - survivin antisense resensitized these cells to doxorubicin , resulting in apoptosis .
Bmi - 1 expression is elevated in most human gliomas , irrespective of grade , raising the question of whether Bmi - 1 over - expression is sufficient to promote self - renewal or tumorigenesis by CNS stem / progenitor cells .
This effect was mediated , at least partly , through caspase activation .
It was demonstrated that ovarian tumor tissue lysates and ovarian cancer cell lines express hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 .
The aim of this study is to investigate ( 1 ) whether expression of COX - 2 and PPARgamma is associated with ovarian carcinogenesis and progression of ovarian tumours and ( 2 ) whether COX - 2 expression is controlled through ligand - mediated activation of PPARgamma in ovarian carcinoma cells .
OBJECTIVE : PTEN ( phosphatase and tensin homologue deleted on chromosome 10 ) is a tumor suppressor gene identified on human chromosome 10q23 .
Rat 6 cells are not transformed by treatment with the well - known carcinogens benzo [ a ] pyrene ( BP ) or N - methyl - N - nitro - N ' - nitrosoguanidine ( MNNG ) .
Interestingly , both INK4 genes express alternative splicing variants .
The transition between both conformations contributes to the control of glycolysis and is important for tumor cell proliferation and survival .
Targeted antibody - based therapy has been used successfully to treat cancers .
The mean BCVA increased from 20 / 76 to 20 / 64 .
Molecular biology of cervical cancer and its precursors .
In vitro assays have indicated that c - myc may be a target gene of c - Myb ; however , regulation of the resident chromosomal gene has not yet been demonstrated .
These results indicate the possibility that activation of angiogenic activity after resection of osteosarcoma tumors enhances progression of pulmonary metastasis .
Topo I expression in paired primary lymph node metastases were studied for concordance .
The role of Hes genes in intestinal development , homeostasis and tumor formation .
The aim of this study was to address the role of pro - and anti - angiogenic molecules in diabetic retinopathy in the aqueous humor of the eye .
Thrombospondin - 1 ( TSP - 1 ) is a potent angiogenesis inhibitor , and down - regulation of TSP - 1 has been suggested to alter tumor growth by modulating angiogenesis in a variety of tumor types .
The deregulated Bcr / Abl tyrosine kinase is responsible for the development of Philadelphia ( Ph ) - positive leukemia in humans .
This allowed coexpression of the two proteins and a comparison with the same vector containing either v - erbA or v - myb only .
Given that AR - mediated gene regulation is enhanced by AR coregulators , inactivation of those coregulators is emerging as a promising therapy for prostate cancer ( PCa ) .
Disruption of AR - ARD1 interactions may be a potent intervention for androgen - dependent PCa therapy .
These findings have suggested that diabetes mellitus may have a different action on retinal and coronary circulation .
KISS1 transcript expression was also associated with histopathological tumor stage ( P < 0 . 0005 ) .
The tumors were also serially transplantable into other mice .
Experimental drug therapy of peritumoral brain edema .
Expanded polytetrafluoroethylene ( PTFE ) sheets were implanted adjacent to both superficial epigastric vascular pedicles of 63 rats distributed into 7 groups ( n = 7 ) that differed with respect to dose and timing of irradiation .
This review will summarize the current position of CECs , EPCs and EMPs in cell biology terms , with particular emphasis on their relationship to malignant disease .
In this review , the mechanisms and factors involved in tumor blood vessel formation are discussed .
In this article we have focused on a role of IL - 6 as a prognostic factor in several malignancies such as colorectal cancer , breast cancer , gastric cancer and pancreatic cancer .
The results suggest that in this strain , the malate - citrate shuttle is not an effective pathway for transferring glycolytic reducing equivalents from cytosol to mitochondria .
VEGF and p53 expressions were observed in 40 % and 53 % of the tumors , respectively .
METHODS : The study included 60 patients with a known prognosis of invasive breast cancer .
The direct angiogenic activity of CCL16 is further amplified by its ability to prime endothelium to a mitogen signal induced by vascular endothelial growth factor A and to raise their basal production of CXCL8 and CCL2 , 2 other angiogenic chemokines .
Although tumor cells can exploit cytokine signaling to promote growth , invasion , and metastasis , the response of normal and premalignant epithelial cells to cytokines present in a developing tumor microenvironment remains unclear .
Calretinin .
We further characterized zebrafish alpha2 integrin and discovered that this integrin is highly conserved , especially the I domain .
BAG - 1L was nucleoplasmic and nucleolar , whereas BAG - 1S and BAG - 1M were cytoplasmic and nucleoplasmic in localisation .
HIF - 1alpha stabilization and the expression of VEGF isoform 165 and 121 in hypoxia were also reduced by the infection of lentiviral shRNA of TB4 in B16F10 cells .
The ability of distinct subdomains within VASP to bind adhesion proteins and induce F - actin bundling in vivo suggests that this protein could function in the aggregation and tethering of actin filaments during the formation of endothelial cell - substrate and cell - cell contacts .
We previously reported that a single dose of ethanol ( 1 . 4 g / kg ) , yielding a blood alcohol concentration of 100 mg / dl , significantly impairs angiogenesis in murine wounds , despite adequate levels of VEGF , suggesting direct effects of ethanol on endothelial cell signaling ( 40 ) .
Our current data suggest that gamma rays worked as an initiator of carcinogenesis in normal human cells , giving rise to chromosome aberrations and immortality , and the Ha - ras oncogene played a role in the progression of the immortally transformed cell population to a neoplastic one showing enhanced colony formation in soft agar and tumorigenicity in nude mice .
Here , the pattern of expression of angiogenin during the transition from normal breast tissue to ductal carcinoma in situ and invasive carcinoma is reported together with the correlates between the level of angiogenin in 239 invasive carcinomas and standard clinicopathological parameters , hypoxia - inducible factor ( HIF ) - 1 alpha and the HIF - 1 alpha target gene DEC - 1 .
Furthermore , inhibition of PARP activity , but not of caspase activity , completely prevented magnolol - induced necrosis , suggesting the notion that it might be caused by depletion of intracellular ATP levels due to PARP activation .
Expression of CD154 on renal cell carcinomas and effect on cell proliferation , motility and platelet - activating factor synthesis .
Myeloma cells counteracted the metabolic stress by activating autophagy .
The latter effect persisted even with the late addition of CHX .
Delayed addition of GM - CSF , but not FBS , permitted partial rescue of the cells , inhibiting increasing rates of accumulation of fragmented DNA .
Our results suggest that a key change in the metastatic hybrids , relative to non - metastatic parental LTA cells , is induction of expression of 72 kDa type IV collagenase .
A novel role of thrombospondin - 1 in cervical carcinogenesis : inhibit stroma reaction by inhibiting activated fibroblasts from invading cancer .
Here , we compared the sensitivity of RCC cells lacking VHL gene function with that of RCC cells expressing the wild - type VHL gene ( wtVHL ) after exposure to various stresses .
The present study used JB6 P + mouse epidermal cells and AP - 1 - luciferase reporter transgenic mice to identify whether exposure to Cum - OOH caused activation of AP - 1 , oxidative stress , depletion of antioxidants and tumor formation during two - stage carcinogenesis .
The tumour suppressor p53 and interferon - alpha and - beta ( IFN - alpha / beta ) are essential for the induction of apoptosis in cancerous cells and in antiviral immune responses , respectively , but little is known about their interrelationship .
PP also resulted in less connective tissue formation and foreign - body reaction than PF and PS prostheses .
These new insights into the involvement of syndecans in disease and tissue repair coupled with the emergence of syndecan - specific molecular tools may lead to novel therapies for a variety of human diseases .
9E3 / CEF4 , which is released from transformed chicken embryo fibroblasts ( CEF ) , is a member of the platelet factor 4 family of inflammatory proteins and may be the avian homolog of interleukin - 8 .
We found that FGF - BP is dramatically upregulated during the initiation of colorectal and pancreatic adenocarcinoma .
The functional benefit of cell transplantation after a myocardial infarction is diminished by early cell losses .
Here , we established lymph node metastasis models by injecting overexpressing VEGF - D Lewis lung carcinoma cells into C57BL / 6 mice to explore the effect of honokiol on tumor - associated lymphangiogenesis and related lymph node metastasis .
The ST3 and BM - 40 / SPARC transcripts were overexpressed in primary colorectal cancers and their liver metastases compared to non - neoplastic mucosa .
Role of thrombogenic factors in the development of atherosclerosis .
In human endothelial cells , cediranib inhibited VEGF - E - induced phosphorylation of VEGFR - 2 and VEGF - C156S - induced phosphorylation of VEGFR - 3 at concentrations of less than / = 1nmol / L and inhibited activation of downstream signaling molecules .
Western blot analysis demonstrated increased active form SREBP in migrating as compared to non - migrating ECs population .
Recombinants that lacked miR - BHRF1 - 2 or miR - BHRF1 - 3 displayed enhanced EBNA expression initiated at the Cp and Wp promoters .
We examined the effect of distraction rate on blood vessel growth in intramembraneous ossification after vertical distraction osteogenesis in the human mandible .
Pro / antioxidant status and AP - 1 transcription factor in murine skin following topical exposure to cumene hydroperoxide .
Furthermore , elevated expression of VEGFR - 1 facilitates the establishment of hematogenous metastases in gastric cancer .
Metastatic NIH 3T3 x LTA cell hybrids express 72 kDa type IV collagenase .
The vertebrate vasculature develops in remarkably similar fashion in all vertebrates .
Migration of capillary endothelial cells is an important component of angiogenesis in vivo .
Morphogenesis of embryonic CNS vessels .
Hepatitis B virus integration event in human chromosome 17p near the p53 gene identifies the region of the chromosome commonly deleted in virus - positive hepatocellular carcinomas .
This assay allows exploration of angiogenesis in fat tissue .
These results are consistent with our initial hypothesis and lead us to propose that MKK inhibition by LeTx is a broadly effective strategy for targeting neovascularization in fibrosarcomas and other similar proliferative lesions .
Terminal transferase dUTP end - labeling assay and TEM studies of anti - IGF - IR - treated lungs demonstrated numerous apoptotic mesenchymal cells .
The transformation is a consequence of the ability of viruses to integrate into the host cell ' s DNA and to produce transforming proteins .
The data show that different protein expression patterns exist between primary squamous cell lung carcinomas with and without lymph node involvement and within carcinomas with lymph node involvement .
BACKGROUND : The Ras association domain family 1 ( RASSF1 ) gene is a Ras effector encoding two major mRNA forms , RASSF1A and RASSF1C , derived by alternative promoter selection and alternative mRNA splicing .
In invasive NM - e - ras - MAC1 cells , where E - cadherin was partially downregulated by specific antisense RNA , syndecan - 1 expression was suppressed .
Thus , c - myc induction is a resistance factor and our findings suggest that tumors carrying low levels of c - Myc protein could be more responsive to vinca alkaloids treatment .
To our knowledge , this is the first study to evaluate the effects of 2ME2 in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
For electron microscopic examination the cell suspensions were then incubated with gold - labeled antirabbit antibody .
In 4 weeks after surgery , angiogenesis of test group reached to peak .
CONCLUSION : The protein profile of metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines displayed obvious differences compared with non - metastatic liver cancer cell lines .
Antiangiogenesis therapy might have a role in reducing regional metastasis .
Unlike the majority of somatic cells , in which hTERT and telomerase activity are generally silent , normal lymphocytes show transient physiological hTERT expression and telomerase activity according to their differentiation / activation status .
At the time of brain biopsy , the primary site of tumor origin was known in 45 cases and unknown in 30 cases .
Relevant differentially expressed genes were validated by either quantitative real - time polymerase chain reaction or immunohistochemistry on tissue microarrays .
Supernatant from cultures of Ve - and OMP - stimulated HGF strongly induced VPE .
TSC2 and PTEN are two key inhibitors of the Akt / mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) pathway and the specific inhibition of mTOR with rapamycin or RAD001 inhibited cell proliferation of PET cell lines .
These parameters were correlated with histology to obtain a radiological - histological map of tumour microvasculature .
Effect of antitumor agents on cytotoxicity induction by sodium fluoride .
The heat shock proteins ( HSPs ) centered and NF - kappaB centered networks were also enriched in the result , which may imply the key function of inflaming on metastasis .
Increased NOS activity is mediated solely by Ca ( 2 + ) - dependent NOS and , as shown by immunoblotting , an upregulation of endothelial NOS .
To investigate the endothelial proliferation and the potential signaling pathways affected by PTEN methylation , proliferating cell nuclear antigen as well as phosphor - Akt and phosphor - Erk1 , 2 were detected by immunofluorescence and Western blot , respectively , in CCM specimens .
In acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) with t ( 7 ; 11 ) translocation , the HOX A9 gene is rearranged .
These changes should diminish apoptosis activity in the tumor cells .
Liposomal honokiol inhibits VEGF - D - induced lymphangiogenesis and metastasis in xenograft tumor model .
In contrast , knockdown of Pbx1 did not impair bone marrow transformation by E2A / HLF or AML1 / ETO , suggesting that Pbx1 is specifically required for the maintenance of bone marrow transformation mediated by Evi - 1 .
A marked coronary angiogenesis is known to occur with chronic bradycardia .
METHODS : Tumor biopsy specimens and serum were obtained from 37 neuroblastoma patients ; adrenal biopsy sections and sera of 7 normal children served as controls .
Moreover , HMGA2 knockdown by short hairpin HMGA2 in HepG2 cells leads to progressive telomere shortening and a concurrent decrease of steady - state hTERT mRNA levels , attenuating their ability to form colonies in soft agar .
This prompted us to examine a hypothesis that insulin - like growth factors may be responsible for overexpression of tumor hexokinase .
RESULTS : MMP - 9 was expressed in both cell lines but the intensity of the staining was different .
Effects of cyclooxygenase - 2 non - selective and selective inhibitors on proliferation inhibition and apoptosis induction of esophageal squamous carcinoma cells .
Clinical results induced by autologous bone marrow stem cells or angiogenic growth / differentiation factors in end - stage patients with PAD are summarized .
Angiogenesis is induced by soluble factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) released from tumor cells in hypoxia .
Here , in order to characterize the role of the promoter that drives DSCR - 1s expression in mediating inducible expression in vivo and to determine the functional relevance of DSCR - 1s in inflammation , we targeted a DNA construct containing 1 . 7 kb of the human DSCR1s promoter coupled to the lacZ reporter to the hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase ( Hprt ) locus of mice .
Interleukin - 1 ( IL - 1 ) synthesis in the brain is stimulated by mechanical injury and IL - 1 mimics some effects of injury , such as gliosis and neovascularization .
One of the clones ( clone 1510 ) contained the gene encoding latent membrane protein ( LMP ) .
However , the mechanism by which E7 contributes to cellular transformation is unknown .
It is involved in a number of physiologic and pathologic events including angiogenesis , apoptosis , inflammation , wound healing and tumor metastasis .
FA induced GR - mediated transcription in Ca3 / 7 cells transfected with a luciferase reporter gene under the control of glucocorticoid response element ( GRE ) , but DMI alone did not affect GR - mediated transcription .
Partial tissue oxygen tension ( PtO ( 2 ) ) was measured with polarographic microprobes ; epithelial metabolism was monitored by microdialysis inside the TET epithelium perfused with the medium underneath .
Furthermore , compared with similar fusion proteins in which uteroglobin was not used , the use of uteroglobin improved properties of solubility and stability .
The semaphorin 7A receptor Plexin C1 is lost during melanoma metastasis .
Fas - Fas ligand signaling pathway mediates an interleukin - 12 - induced rejection of a murine prostate tumor system .
The present study aimed to investigate whether PTEN promoter methylation was involved in CCMs .
Regulation of tumor angiogenesis by thrombospondin - 1 .
Although regulation of Id - 1 protein by several mitogenic factors is well - established , little is known about the role of FGF - 2 in the regulation of Id - 1 .
Better stem cell and progenitor cell markers as well as the ability to specifically target oncogenes into different mammary cell types will be needed to determine the spectrum of oncogene transformation for stem cells versus more differentiated cells .
In addition to its role in embryonic development , the Hedgehog pathway has been shown to be an active participant in cancer development , progression , and metastasis .
In human gliomas and other cancer cell lines , the accumulation of HIF - 1alpha protein under aerobic conditions requires the metabolism of glucose to pyruvate that prevents the aerobic degradation of HIF - 1alpha protein , activates HIF - 1 DNA binding activity , and enhances the expression of several HIF - 1 - activated genes including erythropoietin , vascular endothelial growth factor , glucose transporter 3 , and aldolase A .
As SET has been previously reported to be an inhibitor of phosphatase PP2A , the nuclear phosphatase activity was monitored in cells expressing activated Galpha ( 12 ) .
In 20 RCC patients , serum samples were obtained separately from the bilateral renal veins .
These results suggest that the tumor - bearing animal , even prior to significant cachexia , has an excess demand for energy , the provision of which may be a significant factor in malignant cachexia .
Taken together , these results lend great support to use PDGFRbeta antagonists in combinations with other antitumor and / or anti - angiogenic agents in the treatment of a variety of cancers .
Aberrantly activated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 ( Stat3 ) is implicated in the development of various human cancers .
Genotypes of 155 patients with cervical cancer and 160 healthy control subjects were determined using polymerase chain reaction - based restriction fragment length polymorphism ( PCR - RFLP ) .
In the current study , Hedgehog signaling in tumor related vasculature and microenvironment was examined using human umbilical vein endothelial cells and B16F0 ( murine melanoma ) tumors models .
Mice primed with dimethyl - benz [ a ] anthracene ( DMBA ) were topically exposed to Cum - OOH ( 82 . 6 micromol ) or the positive control , 12 - O - tetradecanoylphorbol - 13 - acetate ( TPA , 17 nmol ) , twice weekly for 29 weeks .
Angiogenesis has become an attractive target for drug therapy because of its key role in tumor growth .
Pouch vascular volume and permeability changes were studied by fractional distributions of radiotracers and were analyzed by a variety of statistical methods which explored the vascular parameters , treatment types , elapsed time , presence of the carcinogen , and histopathologic changes .
Recent advances in stem cell biology added the new concept that cancer originates from a single cancer - initiating cell .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is a vascular growth factor which induces angiogenesis ( the development of new blood vessels ) , vascular permeability , and inflammation .
Strikingly , Tip30 deletion promotes proliferation of primary MECs and results in rapid immortalization of MECs in vitro relative to wild - type cells .
MMP - 2 was increased with malignancy , but no expression of MMP - 9 was seen .
The amount of radioactivity released into the medium during the subsequent 24 to 72 h was measured , and it was found that all - trans - RA treatment inhibited degradation of extracellular matrix and type IV collagen by 50 to 60 % .
IGF - 1 mRNA ( n = 10 / group ) and protein levels ( n = 6 / group ) were higher ( P less than 0 . 05 for all groups ) at 3 , 7 , and 14 days compared with controls .
Adenovirus 5 early region 1A ( E1A ) has been shown to exhibit high tumor suppressor activity , and gene therapy using E1A has been tested in clinical trials .
CONCLUSIONS : SREBP is activated during and plays a critical role in ECs migration .
In contrast , abnormal staining was frequently found even in intramucosal carcinoma of undifferentiated - type tumours , suggesting an apparent difference in the onset of E - cadherin - catenin complex abnormality between the two cancer types .
Hypoxia - induced gene expression in cancer cells has been linked to malignant transformation .
The rationale for therapeutic angiogenesis is discussed , together with the most recent results from randomised trials in patients with peripheral arterial disease .
The polycomb gene Bmi - 1 is required for the self - renewal of stem cells from diverse tissues , including the central nervous system ( CNS ) .
N - glycosylation of glucose transporter - 1 ( Glut - 1 ) is associated with increased transporter affinity for glucose in human leukemic cells .
This technique also revealed the inhibitory effect of the NOS inhibitor N ( G ) - iminoethyl - L - ornithine in VEGF - mediated in vivo angiogenesis .
Antivascular actions of microtubule - binding drugs .
In addition , VEGF might be associated with the etiology of periodontitis in its early stages according to neovascularization stimulated by periodontal pathogens causing swelling and edema .
A considerable number of mutant p53 proteins probably have an oncogenic activity per se and therefore actively participate in cell transformation .
Furthermore , specific downregulation of either caspase - 9 , Bax , or Bak by siRNA effectively reduced PARP cleavage and caspase - 3 activation .
At the cellular level , the result is hypoxia which impairs wound healing .
Changes of bile reflux to the stomach was observed endoscopically at 24 weeks as well as the development of gastric mucosal erosions .
Importantly , we show that mouse p10 is able to induce cell cycle arrest in a p53 - dependent manner .
We propose that this novel , central metabolic role is at the core of the addiction for STAT3 shown by so many biologically different tumours .
To further clarify the influence of mechanical strain on the regulation of bone formation , bone growth factors ( insulin - like growth factor [ IGF ] I , IGF binding protein [ IGFBP ] 3 , transforming growth factor [ TGF ] beta1 , and basic FGF [ bFGF ] ) , bone matrix degrading enzymes ( matrix - metalloproteinases [ MMPs ] 1 , 2 , and 3 ) , human growth hormone ( hGH ) , and bone formation markers ( ALP , bone - specific ALP [ BAP ] , and osteocalcin [ OC ] ) have been analyzed in serum samples from 10 patients in each group pre - and postoperatively .
A nutritionally induced obesity model in transgenic mice has been used extensively to study the role of the fibrinolytic and MMP systems in the development of obesity .
Prolonged silencing of both MCTs reduced viability by 75 % individually and 92 % in combination , as measured by both phenotypic and flow cytometric analyses .
Antioxidants significantly reduced TNFalpha - induced genetic damage .
Based on this observation , we generated the first transgenic mouse model with a targeted overexpression of Tsg101 in the developing mammary gland to test whether exogenous Tsg101 is capable of initiating tumorigenesis .
Breast cancer cells lacking final sigma expression showed increased number of chromosomal breaks and gaps when exposed to gamma - irradiation .
Cervical cancer develops from well - defined precursor lesions referred to as either cervical intraepithelial neoplasia or squamous intraepithelial lesions .
Involved introns contain homology to recombination signal sequence ( RSS ) heptamers present in the V ( D ) J region of the T lymphocyte receptor gene .
The 3 - year disease - free survival ( DFS ) and overall survival ( OS ) of patients with tumors expressing different levels of COUP - TFII were evaluated by the Kaplan - Meier method .
Analysis of the stability of HAH - cortisol showed that it was stable at pH 7 . 4 and broke down rapidly ( t1 / 2 15 min ) at pH 4 . 8 at 37 degrees C .
Immunohistochemistry with 27 primary antibodies was performed in 100 formalin - fixed paraffin - embedded samples of invasive ductal carcinomas .
To delineate the roles that oxygen and fibroblast growth factors ( FGFs ) play in the process of angiogenesis from the embryonic aorta , we cultured mouse embryonic aorta explants ( thoracic level to lateral vessels supplying the mesonephros and metanephros ) in a three - dimensional type I collagen gel matrix .
Outcomes measures included transcutaneous blood gas levels , histology , total RNA content and analysis of alpha2 ( I ) collagen ( COL - I ) , type IV collagen ( COL - IV ) , alpha1 ( V ) collagen ( COL - V ) , and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression using real - time quantitative PCR .
We have , therefore , examined components of this plasminogen activating system in patients with Non - Small Cell Lung Cancer ( NSCLC ) .
However many human carcinomas overexpress TGFbeta1 and this is associated with poor patient prognosis and increased frequency of metastasis .
CONCLUSIONS : These results suggest that the anti - angiogenic effects of U - 995 may be be due to interference with the proliferation and migration of HUVECs as well as inhibition of collagenolysis , thereby leading to inhibition of both angiogenesis and tumor cell growth .
Ultimately , the primary site was established on clinical and radiographic grounds in 71 cases ( 95 % ) .
The formation of new blood vessels through the process of angiogenesis is critical in vascular development and homeostasis .
The level of neu expression , as well as the differential expression between P185neu and LAR / PTP1B , directly correlated with tumorigenicity .
No significant association between p53 and VEGF expressions and poor prognosis was found .
The truncated fos protein that contains only part of the central region is not phosphorylated in chicken embryo fibroblasts , indicating that phosphorylation of the fos protein is not necessary for the transforming activity .
To examine this hypothesis , we used NCI - H1299 non - small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) cell line ( p53 and PTEN null cell ) and constructed an ICAM - 3 - over - expressing stable transfectant , which exhibited increased cell migration and invasion .
Thus , allogeneic injection of FM - MSC may be a new therapeutic strategy for the treatment of severe peripheral vascular disease .
The presence of activating mutations has been demonstrated in the TSH - R gene as well as in the Gs alpha protein gene in thyroid toxic adenoma resulting in the constitutive activation of the cAMP pathway and it has been hypothesised that these genetic alterations may play a causative role in the disease .
Expression of TSP - 1 is up - regulated by the tumor suppressor gene , p53 , and down - regulated by oncogenes such as Myc and Ras .
Survivin is a novel member of the inhibitor of apoptosis protein ( IAP ) family .
In the colon carcinoma experiment , mean permeability and perfusion decreased by 51 % ( from 5 . 2 + / - 1 . 1 to 2 . 5 + / - 0 . 8 ml / 100 ml ) and 59 % ( from 0 . 00165 + / - 5 . 1 to 0 . 0067 + / - 4 . 8 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) of tissue ) , respectively , in all animals after antiangiogenic drug administration .
We measured serum IL - 8 and urine IL - 8 levels in patients with NHL , and we compared the concentrations with those of control individuals .
rho genes have been found in both lower and higher eucaryotes .
The difference in diagnostic performance was not significant on receiver operating characteristic analysis ( P > 0 . 4 ) .
We previously reported the cloning and characterization of a HBV insert from a Chinese HCC .
Alterations in carbohydrate metabolism in canine lymphoma .
There are examples of the aberrant expression of a homeobox gene causing leukemias in humans .
HCMV immediate - early proteins were clearly shown to be responsible for elevating p53 levels in infected fibroblasts ; expression of HCMV immediate - early region 1 and 2 proteins resulted in elevation of p53 levels in transfected human fibroblasts .
The connection between collagen type VII deficiency , increased collagenase , and squamous cell carcinoma is not understood .
CONCLUSION : Our observations suggest that DCC / netrin - 1 signaling may commit cells to the transition of endometrial gland architecture or function from a proliferating to a secretory phase .
Joint haemorrhage and subsequent haemophilic arthropathy are significant complications in haemophilia .
Twenty - one percent of clinically unaffected family members had elevated levels of bFGF , and 13 % of patients with EBS had elevated levels of bFGF .
p - XSC also decreases Akt phosphorylation as well as Akt - specific phosphorylation of the AR .
In contrast , the incidence and density of somatostatin receptors in peritumoral vessels was low in well - differentiated gastrointestinal and bronchial carcinoids , in contrast to the high density of such receptors in the carcinoid tumor tissue .
In the face fo the fatal outcome , new approaches to the therapy have been established .
Given that PLCbeta3 is typically known as an effector of heterotrimeric G - proteins , our data demonstrate a unique crosstalk between the G - protein and receptor tyrosine kinase ( RTK ) axes and reveal a novel molecular mechanism of VEGF signaling and , thus , angiogenesis .
We present evidence that apoptosis of caspase - 3 - deficient MCF - 7 breast cancer cells is defective in response to cisplatin treatment , as determined by chromatin condensation , nuclear fragmentation , DNA fragmentation , and release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria .
In fact , p75 ( NTR ) depresses the VEGF - A / Akt / eNOS / NO pathway and additionally reduces the mRNA levels of ITGB1 [ beta ( 1 ) integrin ] , BIRC5 ( survivin ) , PTTG1 ( securin ) and VEZF1 .
In this study , we investigated the effects of spironolactone on the prevention of corneal allograft rejection in a MHC class I / II mismatch rat corneal transplant model .
While the study of angiogenesis as a phenomenon is still in an early phase , it has become possible , by using a combination of in vitro and in vivo techniques , to more thoroughly understand the initiation and control of capillary growth .
Protein expression profile of primary human squamous cell lung carcinomas indicative of the incidence of metastases .
Thrombin decreases the ability of endothelial cells to attach to basement membrane proteins .
Genes most significantly represented in this program are those with roles in cell growth and proliferation > protein synthesis > gene expression > cell death > cell cycle .
In addition , the double staining was also used to determine VEGF - C expression in TAMs .
METHODS : Human fat tissue fragments from surgery were placed in 96 - well plates , embedded in fibrin thrombin clot and overlaid with cell culture media containing 20 % fetal bovine serum .
Interestingly , the neutralization of beta ( 1 ) or the inactivation of PAK increases PSMA activity , suggesting that they negatively regulate PSMA .
In vivo effects of insulin on tumor and skeletal muscle glucose metabolism in patients with lymphoma .
The pentapeptide SFLLR , like thrombin , caused a marked stimulation of angiogenesis in the CAM .
hTERT activity is associated with nodal metastases and cellular proliferation .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and Angiopoietin 1 ( Ang1 ) are both potent proangiogenic factors , but , whereas VEGF causes vascular permeability , Ang1 stabilizes blood vessels and protects them from VEGF - induced plasma leakage .
These data support a possible role for tumor cell TGF - beta in the progression of mammary carcinomas by suppressing host immune surveillance .
The expression of VEGFs did not correlate with either lymphatic density or neck metastasis .
Coexpression of keratin and vimentin was found in approximately 20 % of the tumors regardless of menopausal status .
To understand the molecular pathway in Hoxa9 / Meis1 - induced leukemogenesis , retroviral insertional mutagenesis was applied using retrovirus - mediated gene transfer .
To determine whether changes in angiogenesis are responsible for the decrease in progesterone synthesis , we measured hemoglobin and CD34 levels in luteinized ovaries following injection of COX inhibitors and measured the relative frequency of cells positive for platelet - endothelial cell adhesion molecule as a specific marker for endothelial cells .
Platelet - derived growth factor ( PDGF ) and its receptors ( PDGFR ) play important roles in tumorigenesis through stimulating tumor growth and promoting angiogenesis via enhancing pericyte recruitment and vessel maturation .
The antiproliferative and anti - migratory mechanisms of HTPB were investigated by cell proliferation , flow cytometry , DNA ladder , caspase activity , Rho activity , F - actin polymerization , and gelatin - zymography for matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) .
We examined the status and regulation of semaphorins and their receptors in human ovarian cancer cells .
Results were analyzed with chi2 tests .
The grafts are extensively vascularized with capillaries composed of nonfenestrated endothelium ; intercellular junctions are evident at sites of apposition between endothelial cells .
Importantly , a striking increase in the expression of specific PTPases , LAR and PTP1B , was observed in 3 independently neu transformed cell lines and their derived tumors .
Both B and T lymphocytes diversify their antigen receptors through RAG1 / 2 mediated recombination , but B cells undergo two additional processes - - somatic hypermutation ( SHM ) and class - switch recombination ( CSR ) , both initiated by activation - induced cytidine deaminase ( AID ) .
The body has three equally important interactive immune defense systems , all of which are profoundly disrupted with major burn injury .
p53 - deficient cancers are often unstable , aggressive , and resistant to therapy .
Constitutively increased c - src kinase activity reconstituted the increases in migration and u - PA observed with angiotensin system interruption .
But because these experiments were performed on confluent cultures of established cell lines , the differences are difficult to attribute to ras transformation .
BACKGROUND : Breast cancers have higher than normal glucose metabolism , but the mechanism of glucose entry into these tumors is not well understood .
However , how the tumor suppressive functions of p53 become concerted with the extracellular cues arriving at the cell surface during tissue homeostasis , remains largely unknown .
With the recent ability to clone capillary endothelial cells and to carry them in long - term culture , it has been possible to further delineate the mechanism of capillary growth .
T - antigen - mediated sensitization occurred independently of retinoblastoma protein or p53 and p300 binding .
Cyclin - dependent kinase - 2 activity , p107 and cyclin A levels , and retinoblastoma protein phosphorylation are markedly reduced in response to the addition of exogenous SPARC and / or peptides derived from specific domains of SPARC .
Efficacy was demonstrated particularly for chronic synovitis and pain and no serious adverse events occurred .
The methylation status was correlated to the clinical manifestations and to PTEN expression , which was analyzed by both Western blot and immunohistochemistry .
We conclude that prefabrication of a fat flap is possible and may have extensive application in various areas of plastic surgery .
Many observations in various animal models and humans support that the remodeling of preexisting collateral vessels is the mechanism of collateral artery formation .
METHODS : Forty patients with recurrent or metastatic advanced cancer , without bone metastases , were randomized into the trial to either receive zoledronic acid or no treatment .
Tumour angiogenesis involves multiple cellular processes including endothelial cell proliferation , migration , reorganisation of extracellular matrix and tube formation .
Repeated rounds of mutation , selection , and proliferation may lead to cancer .
Systemic administration of VEGF or LPS in adult mice resulted in cyclosporine A - sensitive reactivation of the DSCR1s promoter and endogenous gene expression in a subset of organs , including the heart and brain .
Angiogenesis was significantly inhibited in the DMBA - vitamin E group and TGF alpha expression was also inhibited .
However , effective HDAC inhibitors for the treatment of solid tumors remain to be developed .
In DU - 145 cells apoptosis was increased by lower TRAIL concentrations and was earlier than in PC - 3 cells , as shown using Annexin V - binding assay .
RASSF1C down - regulates several pro - apoptotic and tumor suppressor genes and up - regulates several growth promoting genes in breast cancer cells .
Highly metastatic IV Cl 1 cells expressed approximately 5 fold lower levels of protein encoded by NME genes than non - metastatic IV Cl 3 cells .
Similar differences in NME protein levels were observed in tumors induced by the two cell lines in nude mice .
The protein expression was determined by Western blot analysis .
Targeting angiogenesis : progress with anti - VEGF treatment with large molecules .
Moreover , HTPB inhibited activity of MMP2 and MMP9 , reduced integrin - beta1 / focal adhesion complex formation and decreased pericellular poly - fibronectin assemblies .
Finally , we demonstrated that direct inhibition of key enzymes to glycogen metabolism and pentose phosphate pathways reduced HUVEC viability and migration .
Among the sequence variations , there was a change from G to T at nucleotide position 169 , 426 , resulting in the loss of an XhoI site in exon 1 of the LMP gene .
Enhanced DNA - binding activity of a Stat3 - related protein in cells transformed by the Src oncoprotein .
Acetylation of histone and non - histone proteins , induction of apoptotic - related proteins and de - phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase were confirmed in treated mice .
Utilizing antibody raised against the purified human erythrocyte glucose transporter , we have identified the glucose transporter as a membrane glycoprotein with a monomer Mr of approximately 41 , 000 .
This observed genomic instability will be of value in predicting the potential metastatic behavior of these aggressive pituitary tumors .
Activated platelets enhance ovarian cancer cell invasion in a cellular model of metastasis .
METHODS AND RESULTS : Purified B - CLL cells from 15 patients were cultured either alone or with Sim at concentrations of 10 , 50 , and 100 microM .
There is evidence for the implication of ARF in angiogenesis .
Hypoxia - inducible factor 1 activation by aerobic glycolysis implicates the Warburg effect in carcinogenesis .
The proteins with differential expression were analyzed in 40 undifferentiated NPC paraffin - embedded specimens .
Acute ethanol exposure disrupts VEGF receptor cell signaling in endothelial cells .
This limitation may be resolved by in vivo delivery and expression of the antiangiogenic genes .
We examined the paired tumour and normal - tissue specimens of 86 CRC patients for the occurrence of aberrations in the mutation cluster region ( MCR ) of the APC gene and exon 3 of the beta - catenin gene by polymerase chain reaction - single - strand conformation polymorphism ( PCR - SSCP ) and / or PCR - direct sequencing .
One 9 - year - old boy with bilateral microcarcinoma already had a lymph node metastasis .
Sanguinarine induces apoptosis of human osteosarcoma cells through the extrinsic and intrinsic pathways .
Together , these findings suggest that NCAM may limit tumor cell metastasis by stabilizing the microvessel wall .
Truncated galectin - 3 inhibits tumor growth and metastasis in orthotopic nude mouse model of human breast cancer .
Ang - 2 - deficient tumor vessels had higher pericyte coverage indices .
Furthermore , rat mammary carcinomas with elevated neu expression ( neu - induced ) also had sharply elevated LAR - PTPase expression when compared to rat mammary carcinomas with little or no neu expression ( 7 , 12 - dimethylbenzanthracene induced ) ; the level of expression of LAR PTPase was directly correlated with the level of neu expression .
In vivo , cediranib ( 6 mg / kg / d ) prevented angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis induced by VEGF - E - expressing and VEGF - C156S - expressing adenoviruses , respectively .
RESULTS : AQP1 , 3 - 5 , and 10 - 12 were expressed in human breast cancer and / or normal breast tissues , and AQP1 and 3 - 5 exhibited differential expression .
By modulating beta - catenin levels in a mouse model of melanoma that is based on melanocyte - specific Pten loss and Braf ( V600E ) mutation , we demonstrate that beta - catenin is a central mediator of melanoma metastasis to the lymph nodes and lungs .
Thyroid transcription factor - 1 ( TTF - 1 ) is expressed in lung adenocarcinomas and thyroid carcinomas but not in adenocarcinomas arising from other sites .
Furthermore , the conditioned medium from these cells enhanced vascular permeability in vivo .
Our data suggest that KISS1 and MMP - 9 may serve as potential prognostic and therapeutic markers in lung cancer .
Co - treatment with inhibitors of autophagy results in marked enhancement of cell death .
Interference with Dll4 - Notch signaling may be particularly desirable in tumors that have highly induced Dll4 - Notch pathway .
Both WAP - T mice as well as WAP - mutCK1delta / WAP - T bi - transgenic mice developed breast cancer .
A precise identification of LVI would have a strong clinical impact for breast cancer patients .
The decreased expression of SEMA3B , SEMA3F , and plexin - A3 was confirmed in stage 3 ovarian tumors .
Suppressed transformation and induced differentiation of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells by emodin .
Considering the relatively few number of patients treated by angiogenic therapy , the interpretation of clinical results needs cautiousness .
UFT , an anticancer agent that is composed of tegafur ( FT ) and uracil at a molar ratio of 1 : 4 , is widely used in clinical practice in Japan to treat cancer patients requiring a long - term chemotherapy , and it is associated with few side effects , if any .
An intradermal angiogenesis assay was used to demonstrate that a 4 - day treatment with vandetanib ( 50 mg / kg / day ) was able to significantly inhibit blood vessel growth induced by both parental and high VEGF - expressing tumor cell clones .
Metastasis from lung adenocarcinoma can occur swiftly to multiple organs within months of diagnosis .
Additionally , doxycycline diminishes the proliferation of this breast cancer cell line and also decreases its gelatinolytic activity , as determined by gel zymography .
In damaged and inflamed tissue , LL - 37 functions as a chemoattractant , mitogen and pro - angiogenic factor suggesting that the peptide may potentiate tumor progression .
The current data also suggest that administration of antiangiogenic reagents can prevent progression of pulmonary metastasis in osteosarcoma postoperatively .
The ability of CLA to inhibit angiogenesis may contribute to its efficacy as a chemopreventive agent .
It was found that wild - type ( wt ) SVLT strongly inhibited the terminal differentiation of mouse C2 myoblasts , but this arrest occurred only after the synthesis of myogenin , an initial step in biochemical differentiation .
Pathologic conditions included dystrophia , moderate dysplasia , severe dysplasia , and intraepithelial carcinoma .
However , no changes were observed in the presence of netrin - 1 .
Two patients presented both RUNX1 mutations and RUNX1 - PRDM16 fusion .
Alpha - melanocyte - stimulating hormone modulates activation of NF - kappa B and AP - 1 and secretion of interleukin - 8 in human dermal fibroblasts .
After successive growth in vitro for longer than one month which was scarcely observed with the erythrophores , the vast majority of such transformants began to differentiate into erythrophores and ceased proliferation spontaneously .
Although Evi - 1 is thought to promote growth or block differentiation in some cell types , its biological functions have not been elucidated .
They were also variably resistant to the anti - proliferative and anti - invasive signals from TGFbeta .
In EC9706 cells , the mechanism of aspirin and nimesulide induced growth inhibition was a consequence of cell cycle arrest at the G ( 0 ) / G ( 1 ) check point .
Preliminary in vitro studies showed that the agents significantly inhibited RNA and DNA synthesis in Ehrlich ascites cells .
Also , the grafts maintain a constant volume between 3 and 8 weeks , thereby indicating that primary skin fibroblasts do not produce tumors .
The antibody also blocks ligand - stimulated activation of PDGFRbeta and downstream signaling molecules , including Akt and MAPK p42 / 44 , in tumor cells .
At 3 weeks , the endogenous blood supply of both the control and the experimental fat pads was isolated and ligated , and the composite fat / muscle flap was transferred to the chest wall .
p53 mutation heterogeneity in cancer .
Although the importance of VEGF - A has been shown in renal carcinomas , the contribution of these new ligands in kidney tumors is not clear .
These cells were negative for Hep par - 1 , carcinoembryonic antigen , neural cell adhesion molecule , CD34 , CD31 and HMB45 .
Combined topical fluconazole and corticosteroid treatment for experimental Candida albicans keratomycosis .
There was a significant correlation between eye appraisal and Chalkley counting ( P less than 0 . 0001 ) .
Abnormal expression of E - cadherin and beta - catenin may be a molecular marker of submucosal invasion and lymph node metastasis in early gastric cancer .
Although several methods have been used for measuring in vitro angiogenesis , a proper technique has not been developed for identifying in vivo NO - dependent angiogenesis .
Until recently , their role in pathogenesis was largely unexplored .
Cobalt chloride , a stimulator of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) stimulated angiogenesis initiation at 10 ( - 9 ) M in fat tissue and the HPVAM , but at 10 ( - 10 ) M blood vessel growth was stimulated only in the fat assay .
CONCLUSIONS : MDM2 expression quantified by image analysis was weakly associated with DM .
We tested the hypothesis that vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , an endothelial cell mitogen and a major regulator of angiogenesis , is upregulated in response to low heart rate and consequential increased stroke volume .
However , mice treated with t - butanol , an alcohol not metabolized by alcohol dehydrogenase , exhibited no change in wound vascularity .
A number of epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) deletion mutants have been identified in gliomas , in which the EGFR gene is frequently amplified and rearranged .
Strong CXCR4 expression was significantly associated with lymph node metastases ( P = 0 . 028 ) and higher stages III / IV ( P = 0 . 047 ) , and further tended to be correlated with a reduced 5 - year survival rate ( 42 . 6 % vs . 53 . 9 % ; P = 0 . 1 ) .
No CDC4 / FBXW7 mutations were found and loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 did not correlate with ploidy status .
Reduced expression of E - cadherin , an intercellular adhesion molecule of epithelial cells , has been reported to be associated with aggressive clinicopathological phenotypes in various cancers .
In this study , we have examined the ability of the purine analogue 8 - aminoadenosine to acutely reduce glucose consumption by regulating localization and expression of key glucose transporters .
It was correlated with the laboratory ( Hb , WBC and platelet counts , and the percentage of blasts ) and clinical parameters ( organomegaly , duration of CP , AP , and BC ) of disease progression .
Therefore , we speculated that Ang II may promote the expression of sFlt - 1 in pregnancy .
The eph gene encodes a putative receptor tyrosine kinase for an as yet unknown ligand .
Angiogenesis is a critical process in solid tumor growth and metastasis .
The cell cycle progression and sub - G1 population were analysed by flow cytometry .
bFGF loaded PLGA - HP microspheres showed sustained release profiles of bFGF in vitro , demonstrating reversible and specific binding of bFGF to immobilized heparin .
At necropsy , all macroscopic colonic tumors were identified and histologically classified as dysplasia or adenocarcinoma .
Recent evidence suggests the existence of endothelial precursors in adult bone marrow cells , but it is unclear whether those precursors have a role in tumor neovascularization .
In experimental RG1 2 . 2 glioma of rat brain , local blood flow , glucose utilization , protein synthesis , glucose and ATP content were measured by means of triple tracer autoradiography and bioluminescence technique , respectively , to determine hemodynamic and metabolic thresholds for local tumor energy failure .
Nitric oxide synthase inhibition results in synergistic anti - tumour activity with melphalan and tumour necrosis factor alpha - based isolated limb perfusions .
Mammographic patterns of microcalcifications depend on their physiopathological process ( necrosis , secretion ) , and the shape of clusters ( round , triangular ) typifies their anatomical site of origin ( lobular , ductal ) .
The co - injection of anti - Le ( x ) / Le ( a ) or anti - beta ( 1 ) - integrin antibodies produced a marked reduction in the size of A431 tumors , which were not vascularized and accompanied an independent tiny remnant clump of F - 2 cells .
This observation indicates that VCSA expression at the cell surface is likely to be the result of the interaction between the viral src gene product pp60src with host cell gene ( s ) or gene product ( s ) , rather than the simple expression of this molecule at the cell surface .
Ablation of ADAM - 9 in fibroblasts almost completely abolished these cellular interactions and melanoma cell invasion in vitro .
Non - specific PKC inhibitors staurosporine and bisindolylmaleimide II as well as inhibitors specific to conventional PKCs ( Go6976 ) and PKC - delta ( rottlerin ) attenuated NF - kappaB activation in BPDE treated cells to a varying degree indicating a possible link between PKC down - regulation and the attenuation of NF - kappaB activity by TSC phenolic fraction .
Constitutive expression of a transfected Hox 1 . 4 gene under the control of a simian virus 40 promotor leads to differentiated cell morphology similar to that of the RA - induced phenotype and restores the growth - inhibitory effects of RA in N - ras - transformed cells .
BMSVTs immortalized with hTERT formed large colonies in vitro and small transient tumours in vivo .
This review will focus on the evidence for TGFbeta1 as a tumor promoting and metastasis factor and examine the biological and molecular basis for these effects .
Interestingly , we find that the deletion of miR - BHRF1 - 2 reduced the expression level of miR - BHRF1 - 3 and possibly that of miR - BHRF1 - 1 , demonstrating that the expression of one miRNA can potentiate the expression of other miRNAs located in the same cluster .
In this study , the aim was to investigate the effect of phenolic acids found abundantly in vegetables , i . e . gallic acid ( GA ) , caffeic acid ( CA ) and protocatechuic acid ( PCA ) , on the inhibition of gastric adenocarcinoma ( AGS ) cell metastasis .
These data imply that PSMA participates in an autoregulatory loop , wherein active PSMA facilitates integrin signaling and PAK activation , leading to both productive invasion and downregulation of integrin beta ( 1 ) signaling via reduced PSMA activity .
In aging females , the overexpression of Tsg101 seemed to increase the susceptibility of mammary epithelia toward malignant transformation .
To begin to explain the morphology of Ras - plus TEL - expressing cells , we demonstrated that the endogenous matrix metalloproteinase stromelysin - 1 was repressed by TEL .
Vitamin E inhibits experimental carcinogenesis and tumour angiogenesis .
To investigate the possibility that this regulatory connection contributes to Myb ' s oncogenicity , we expressed a dominant negative Myb in the myeloid leukemic cell line RI - 4 - 11 .
Organ biodistribution studies revealed that galectin - 3C localized in the liver , kidneys , and spleen but not in the heart or lungs .
RESULTS : 11 eyes of 11 patients were included in the study , which had a mean follow - up period of 11 months .
CONCLUSION : Selective inhibition of iNOS by L - NIL inhibits angiogenesis in a hindlimb ischemic rat model .
The authors detected both nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 mRNA levels in 47 tissues samples of patients with carcinoma of buccal mucosa ( CBM ) by quantitative reverse transcription PCR amplification .
Peritoneal NOS activity is increased fivefold in long - term PD patients compared with control subjects .
Transformation - associated cytokine 9E3 / CEF4 is chemotactic for chicken peripheral blood mononuclear cells .
Our results indicate that HCMV elevates cellular p53 levels on the order of 10 - to 20 - fold in infected fibroblasts .
The TB animals had significantly lower plasma glucose and higher blood lactic acid levels compared with NTB animals .
Our data suggest that p - XSC inhibits multiple signaling pathways in prostate cancer , likely accounting for the downstream effects on proliferation and apoptosis .
Results were compared to findings in a control group .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : Porous PLGA microspheres having primary amine groups on the surface were prepared using an oil - in - water ( O / W ) single emulsion method using Pluronic F - 127 as an extractable porogen .
The incidence of high - grade lesions in the folate - deficient group was also 49 % lower than that in the control group ( 33 . 3 % versus 65 . 1 % , P = 0 . 007 ) .
Genetic alterations at final sigma such as loss of heterozygosity were rare ( 1 / 20 informative cases ) , and no mutations were detected ( 0 / 34 ) .
The elevated serum TNF - alpha level observed following MTX treatment was depressed with L - Car .
METHODS : The expression of Merlin protein in 45 cases of NSCLC and adjacent tissue of NSCLC and normal lung tissue was checked by immunohistochemistry .
Notably , three immortalizing E6 mutants that do not induce direct p53 degradation but do interact with hADA3 induced the abrogation of p53 - mediated transactivation and G ( 1 ) cell cycle arrest after DNA damage , comparable to wild - type E6 .
PURPOSE : We investigated the global gene expression in a large panel of pancreatic endocrine tumors ( PETs ) aimed at identifying new potential targets for therapy and biomarkers to predict patient outcome .
Interleukin - 2 administration was followed by a significant increase in total lymphocytes , CD4 + , CD8 + , CD16 + 56 + ( NK ) cells , IL - 6 , IL - 12 , and CRP ( from P < 0 . 04 to P < 0 . 000 ) but no change in IL - 10 and TGFbeta1 during clinical benefit .
Addition of the caspase inhibitor Z - VAD . fmk inhibited caspase 8 and 3 significantly but did not affect caspase 9 .
RESULTS : In this article , we report the effects of altering RASSF1C expression in human breast cancer cells .
Induction of this DNA - binding activity was accompanied by tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat3 and correlated with Src transformation .
Multiple myeloma , an incurable plasma cell malignancy , is characterized by altered cellular metabolism and resistance to apoptosis .
PCNSLs with HRK methylation also showed methylation of multiple genes , such as p14ARF , p16INK4a , RB1 , p27Kip1 and O6 - MGMT .
Available data indicate that the timing of telomerase activation may allow the distinction of two different lymphomagenetic models : ( i ) an early activation of telomerase via exogenous regulators of hTERT , along with an increased lymphocyte growth and a subsequent selection of cells with increased transforming potential may characterize several virus - related lymphoid malignancies ; ( ii ) a progressive shortening of telomeres , leading to genetic instability which favors a subsequent activation of telomerase via endogenous regulators may occur in most virus - unrelated lymphoid tumors .
Combination therapy targets both lymphocytes and macrophages , and is more effective in reducing tumor than either therapy alone .
Exposure to activated platelet membranes and to soluble proteins contained in activated platelet releasate both contributed to the observed increase in invasion .
With the discovery that TGFbeta1 was a potent growth inhibitor of epithelial cells , and the identification of inactivating mutations within the TGFbeta1 signaling pathway in cancers it became clear that TGFbeta1 signaling is a tumor suppressor pathway for early stages of cancer .
We also compared the presence of EGFR and TGF - alpha and Ki - 67 index with clinical data .
However , the exact mechanism underlying the cytotoxic effects of pacitaxel , especially in the survival - signalling pathway , is poorly understood .
Patients were followed up at 1 month and 3 months after treatment and thereafter at 3 - month intervals .
Possible translation of our knowledge to cancer therapeutics will also be discussed .
TEL bound sequences in the stromelysin - 1 promoter and repressed the promoter in transient - expression assays , suggesting that it is a direct target for TEL - mediated regulation .
Samples were assayed for glucose , lactate , and insulin concentrations and compared statistically with ten control dogs of similar weight and age undergoing an identical dextrose challenge .
We also showed ICAM - 3 - induced cell migration and invasion in NCI - H460 NSCLC cells ( wild - type p53 and PTEN cell ) through the same signaling pathway .
The effects of these alterations in placental functional development appear to be irreversible .
Hox 1 . 4 and Hox 1 . 3 , genes abundantly induced in nontransformed clones after 3 days of RA treatment , are expressed in N - ras - transformed cells only after 10 days of RA treatment .
Apoptosis was further measured by DNA fragmentation and microscope examination .
Emergence of the RUNX1 mutations was detected at diagnosis or before the acquisition of trisomy 21 during disease progression .
These findings indicate that TS and CD82 may be of great value in assessing lymph node metastasis of OSCC , and could be taken as new targets for therapy of metastatic OSCC .
CONCLUSION : We present initial results demonstrating anti - inflammatory effects of spironolactone .
As chicken embryo fibroblasts are devoid of EGF receptors , their activity is not potentiated by EGF .
Heparin preparations from a variety of sources stimulated capillary endothelial cell migration to the same degree but did not stimulate migration of several other cell types .
The average latency of leukemia induction was shorter for the erbA / myb IRES virus ( 3 . 5 weeks ) than for the erbA IRES virus ( 5 weeks ) .
Dysregulation of the signaling mechanisms of the TGF - beta superfamily proteins is associated with clinical diseases such as cancer , fibrotic diseases , and vascular disorders .
These cells , but not control cells , showed altered growth properties and anchorage - independent growth in soft agar .
Significantly , phenotypic reversion of malignant cells via reexpression of HoxD10 , which is lost in malignant progression , significantly attenuated VEGF expression in a hypoxia - inducible factor 1alpha - independent fashion and reduced EC migration .
Immunohistochemistry assay was performed for topo I protein expression in 249 primary human colorectal cancer and 42 paired lymph node metastasis samples .
In defined medium , both oncogenic TDM are constitutively autophosphorylated and inefficiently downregulated .
Hence , regulatory mechanisms of IL - 8 need to be investigated in whole tissue .
A greater accumulation of peroxidative products ( thiobarbituric acid - reactive substances ) , inflammation and decreased levels of GSH and total antioxidant reserves were also observed in the skin of DMBA - Cum - OOH - exposed mice .
Insulin - like growth factor 1 receptor enhances invasion and induces resistance to apoptosis of colon cancer cells through the Akt / Bcl - x ( L ) pathway .
BI - 1 ( Bax inhibitor - 1 ) , an apoptosis - inhibiting gene belonging to the Bcl - 2 protein family , plays an important role in mitochondrial apoptosis pathway to suppress Bax - induced apoptosis .
Inhibition of NO synthase by L - NAME might induce an anti - tumour effect by limiting nutrients and oxygen to reach tumour tissue or affecting vascular growth .
The sequential activation of caspase - 9 and caspase - 3 / - 7 and the cleavage of poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase ( PARP ) were observed behind those mitochondrial events .
We further support this hypothesis by providing the first evidence that TnI can act on nonendothelial as well as endothelial cells and by demonstrating that this inhibitory action is specific for the bFGF receptor on the target cells .
The apoptotic cascade was studied by immunoblot analysis of caspases following Sim treatment .
In some cancers , syndecan expression has been shown to regulate tumor cell function ( e . g . proliferation , adhesion , and motility ) and serve as a prognostic marker for tumor progression and patient survival .
Thus , pVHL appears to participate in the elimination of misprocessed proteins , such as those arising in the cell due to the unavailability of glucose or to other stresses .
EPOX inhibits angiogenesis by degradation of Mcl - 1 through ERK inactivation .
A5 - 1 inhibits the integrin - fibronectin interaction in a dose - dependent manner ( IC ( 50 ) ; 1 . 56 + / - 0 . 28 microM .
Compared with the control cells , a desensitization of the response was observed in cells transformed by the overexpression of N - , Ha - , or Ki - ras genes .
Swift elimination of undesirable cells is an important feature in tumour suppression and immunity .
On the basis of earlier findings that ERK5 deficiency in mouse EC results in massive defects in vessel architecture , we focused on the impact of the MEK5 / ERK5 signaling pathway on EC migration .
Anti - transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - beta antibodies inhibit breast cancer cell tumorigenicity and increase mouse spleen natural killer cell activity .
Analysis of associations among studied proteins revealed positive correlation between Bcl - xL and Bax in primary tumors ( P < 0 . 03 , r = 0 . 307 ) .
These findings strongly support an enhanced role for this pathway in clear cell carcinomas by regulating angiogenesis and / or lymphangiogenesis .
Lactoferrin enhances Fas expression and apoptosis in the colon mucosa of azoxymethane - treated rats .
Common features of this ECM - assisted tissue remodelling include angiogenesis , recruitment of circulating progenitor cells and constructive remodelling of damaged tissue structures .
Manipulating angiomiRs in the settings of pathological vascularization represents a new therapeutic approach .
This aggregation process was irreversible and was inversely correlated with the percentage of lung cells that took up lipoplexes and with the efficiency of lipofection .
In conclusion , p53 and VEGF were not correlated with prognosis in patients with stage II and III SCC of the esophagus .
Less than 15 % of the glucose uptake was affected by the 1 , 2 , 3 - benzenetricarboxylate inhibition of the malate - citrate shuttle .
Differential regulation of in vivo angiogenesis by angiotensin II receptors .
The pro - oncogenic transcription factor STAT3 is constitutively activated in a wide variety of tumours that often become addicted to its activity , but no unifying view of a core function determining this widespread STAT3 - dependence has yet emerged .
After incubation for 4 days , the medium from the coculture system is collected .
FPR and the piperazine derivatives inhibited the activation of this enzyme .
Manipulation of Rab7a GTPase activity associated with late endosomes using overexpression of wild - type or mutant proteins blocks activated VEGFR2 trafficking and degradation .
Each group was also divided into two subgroups according to poor and good CCC .
A higher percentage of cells expressing topo I in primary colorectal cancer was significantly associated with advanced age ( P = . 040 ) .
Contemporary perspectives on vital pulp therapy : views from the endodontists and pediatric dentists .
Identification of the putative transforming protein of the human T - cell leukemia viruses HTLV - I and HTLV - II .
These data suggest that 20 - HETE stimulates superoxide formation by pathways other than apocynin - sensitive NAD ( P ) H oxidase , thereby activating MAPK and then enhancing VEGF synthesis that drives EC proliferation .
Recently serum S - 100beta has shown promise as a tumour marker in melanoma ; however , its use as a prognostic marker in the advanced stage needs to be confirmed .
Immunohistochemical staining demonstrated VEGF in the tissues surrounding the Matrigel plugs containing AdCMV . VEGF165 up to 3 weeks after injection , whereas no VEGF was found in the control plugs with AdCMV . beta gal .
Invasion is the hallmark of tumor malignancy .
To understand the mechanisms behind these processes , we have examined the effect of FVIIa on apoptosis .
CONCLUSIONS : This study has identified that the MMP / TIMP profile is an independent indicator of poor prognosis in colorectal cancer .
Fibroblasts of the host animal may thus have an important role in generating enhanced metastatic activity of H - 3 cells .
The specific isoform ( s ) of PKC responsible for each of these changes has not been previously identified .
Ciprofloxacin mediated cell growth inhibition , S / G2 - M cell cycle arrest , and apoptosis in a human transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder cell line .
