RESULTS : Osteopontin small interference RNA ( siRNA ) inhibited osteopontin expression and cell invasion , promoted apoptosis in U251 cells .
Depletion of Rab7a decreased VEGFR2 Y1175 phosphorylation but increased p42 / 44 ( pERK1 / 2 ) MAPK phosphorylation .
miR - 378 , miR - 296 , and the miR - 17 - 92 cluster contribute to tumor angiogenesis .
The frequent expression of cytolytic effector markers in the CD2 + surface CD3 - CD56 + putative NK - cell lymphomas lends further support to their probable NK cell origin .
This process is necessary for the growth and metastasis of tumors , and considerable effort is being expended to find inhibitors of tumor angiogenesis .
Using isogenic human mammary epithelial cells ( HMEC ) at different stages of neoplastic transformation , we found that OSM signaling suppressed c - MYC expression and engaged a p16 - and p53 - independent growth arrest that required STAT3 activity .
The direct angiogenic activity of CCL16 is further amplified by its ability to prime endothelium to a mitogen signal induced by vascular endothelial growth factor A and to raise their basal production of CXCL8 and CCL2 , 2 other angiogenic chemokines .
Factors including thrombin and fibrin , which are downstream of the coagulation cascade activated by TF , also contribute to atherosclerosis .
Inhibition studies showed that adhesion of fibroblasts was mediated by several beta1 integrin receptors independent of the RGD and ECD recognition motif .
In neuronal cells , following Brn - 3a gene transfection and superexpression , an increase of 30 fold of the Bcl - 2 protein occurs , leading to apoptosis protection .
Leukocyte rolling , i . e . , the step preceding adhesion , was not influenced by the presence of a tumor in nude mice , but was down - regulated in immune - competent C57Bl / 6 mice .
RT - PCR and western blot techniques were used to validate target gene expression .
Glucose and lactate metabolism in C6 glioma cells : evidence for the preferential utilization of lactate for cell oxidative metabolism .
We performed comparative proteomic and pathway analysis of four human metastatic HCC cell lines to identify metastasis - associated proteins .
SREBP activation decreased as ECs migration slowed ; ( 2 ) Coincidental with SREBP activation , mRNA expression of its target genes such as low density lipoprotein receptor , HMG - CoA reductase , and fatty acid synthase also increased in migrating ECs population as detected by real - time PCR ; ( 3 ) Migration induced SREBP activation in ECs was inhibited by SREBP - acting protein RNAi and pharmacologically by 25 - hydroxycholesterol ; ( 4 ) Inhibition of SREBP led to decreased ECs migration in various models ; ( 5 ) Cells genetically deficient in SREBP - acting protein , S1P , or S2P , phenotypically exhibited impaired migration ; ( 6 ) SREBP inhibition in ECs suppressed the activity of small GTPase Cdc42 , a key molecule for ECs motility .
These results suggest that doxorubicin is able to induce cell death by apoptosis only at particular dose and treatment conditions and imply a completely different cellular response following bolus or continuous exposure to doxorubicin .
Neoplastic transformation of ciliary body epithelium is associated with loss of opticin expression .
A novel peptide ligand , A5 - 1 ( VILVLF ) , with high affinity to integrin alpha5beta1 was identified from the hexapeptide libraries with this chip - based screening method on the basis of a competitive inhibition assay .
This suggests that FOXO3a is a potential suppressor of carcinogenic damage in LAC .
Eighteen patients with SRNV refusing radiotherapy served as a control group and were matched with 18 irradiated patients .
Importantly , a striking increase in the expression of specific PTPases , LAR and PTP1B , was observed in 3 independently neu transformed cell lines and their derived tumors .
Expression of thymidylate synthase and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase in primary oral squamous cell carcinoma and corresponding metastases in cervical lymph nodes : association with the metastasis suppressor CD82 .
To identify a suitable donor cell population for gene therapy applications to the central nervous system , primary fibroblasts isolated from skin biopsies and maintained in culture are employed as autologous cells for intracerebral grafting within the adult rat striatum .
The E - cadherin / alpha - , beta - , gamma - catenin complex has an invasion - suppressor function as evidenced by transfections either with sense cDNA encoding these molecules or with antisense cDNA inhibiting their expression .
PEDF was found to be decreased in diabetics ( mean values : 2080 vs . 5780 ng / ml ; p = 0 . 04 ) compared to controls .
Macrophages can be activated in a classical or alternative manner in parallel with the T ( H ) 1 / T ( H ) 2 dichotomy , respectively .
The purpose of the present study was to measure the MVD and VEGF expression in a cohort of patients with betel - associated OSCC and to evaluate for possible clinicopathologic correlations .
In the manual count analysis , there was no significant relation between MDM2 overexpression and outcome .
Of the 14 tumors that expressed CD40 , all but 1 ( 93 % ) had either nodal or systemic metastasis at the time of diagnosis .
Carcinogenesis and transcriptional regulation through Maf recognition elements .
Although previous studies have concentrated on the effect of UV - B on the host immune response , the effect of UV - B on the tumor cells was not elucidated .
Heparin was surface immobilized via covalent conjugation .
CONCLUSIONS : SREBP is activated during and plays a critical role in ECs migration .
In this study , we investigated the effects of spironolactone on the prevention of corneal allograft rejection in a MHC class I / II mismatch rat corneal transplant model .
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the biological features of gastric cancer of the remnant stomach ( RSC ) .
RESULTS : ( 1 ) SREBP was activated during ECs migration .
Inhibition of NF - kappaB significantly reduced transcript levels and autocrine production of BMP - 2 by rhTNF - alpha stimulated C4 - 2B cells and to a lesser extent by the parental LNCaP cells .
Predictive markers for anti - VEGF agents have not yet been identified and questions regarding the usefulness of bevacizumab in the adjuvant setting as well as its continued use beyond progression remain unanswered , in spite of negative data on bevacizumab in treating patients with adjuvant colon cancer .
IMPLICATIONS : These findings also contrast with the demonstration of nm23 metastasis suppressor activity in murine melanoma and with the correlation of loss of nm23 expression in breast cancer with poor prognosis .
Patients were followed up at 1 month and 3 months after treatment and thereafter at 3 - month intervals .
The effect of swainsonine ( active compound of locoweed and a potential anticancer drug ) on vascular development showed no differences in sinusoidal diameters at 7 weeks , but a decrease in capillary density was noted .
The expression of endostatin in situ and its maintaining time were detected by immunohistochemistry and Western Blot , respectively .
METHOD : The intratumor microvessel density ( IMVD ) , apoptotic index ( AI ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression were detected by immunohistochemistry SABC and terminal uridine deoxynucleotidyl transferase mediated nick end labeling ( TUNEL ) methods in34 LSCC patients .
The enhanced antiangiogenic effect of cRGD - HL was confirmed in Matrigel assay by showing the significant inhibition of bFGF - driven angiogenesis and blood vessel formation .
The median number of therapies applied , including initial surgery , was 5 ( range 3 - 7 therapies ) .
Effect of 1 - alkylpyrrolidine N - oxides on energy metabolism of cancer cells .
In seven diabetic patients with proliferative retinopathy , the most profound finding was a significant decrease of the PEDF level ( mean value : 237 ng / ml ) , whereas VEGF levels were comparable to diabetic patients without proliferation ( mean value : 3153 ; p = 0 . 003 ) .
CONCLUSION : The data suggest that both h - MVD and VEGF immunoreactivity may be useful predictors for the progression of a subset of OSCC associated mostly with betel use .
RESULTS : The OSCC samples had an average h - MVD score of 27 . 7 / mm ( 2 ) .
Depletion of ARD1 by shRNA suppressed PCa cell proliferation , anchorage - independent growth , and xenograft tumor formation in SCID mice , suggesting that AR - dependent ARD1 expression is biologically germane .
In this study , we identified Pbx1 , a proto - oncogene in hematopoietic malignancy , as a target gene of Evi - 1 .
Mitogen - activated protein kinase kinase signaling promotes growth and vascularization of fibrosarcoma .
More than 50 % of the tumor cells coexpressed vimentin and keratin .
These RNAs were not detectable in reticuloendotheliosis virus - transformed T cells .
The subsequent identification of germline mutations in the gene encoding fumarase - - another TCA cycle enzyme - - in a new hereditary form of susceptibility to renal , uterine and cutaneous tumors has highlighted the potential role of the TCA cycle and , more generally , of the mitochondria in cancer .
Gene expression signatures denoting WNT / TCF activation are associated with relapse to multiple organs in primary lung adenocarcinoma .
Angiogenesis associated with visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissue in severe human obesity .
Lymphoma prevalence was minimal in the T lineage but significant , although low ( 3 - 15 % ) , in the B lineage .
In hPNAS - 4 - p - treated tumor cells in vivo , tumor growth significantly decreased , while the survival time of tumor - bearing mice was prolonged compared with control groups ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
Here we report that the chemotherapeutic drug doxorubicin , a DNA - damaging agent , activates a p53 - survivin signaling pathway inducing cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ) .
This study uses quantitative histomorphometry and double - immunohistologic detection techniques for the demarcation of proliferating endothelial cells , to show that synchronized hair follicle cycling in adolescent C57BL / 6 mice is associated with substantial angiogenesis , and that inhibiting angiogenesis in vivo by the intraperitoneal application of a fumagillin derivative retards experimentally induced anagen development in these mice .
Blockage of the Akt pathway attenuated CREB activation , and a decrease in CREB expression reduced cellular migration / invasion and activity of MMPs .
There was no correlation between the expression of HLA - DR and infiltration by dendritic cells .
These findings are potentially clinically relevant , because HMGA2 expression is reported to be upregulated in a number of human cancers as telomere maintenance is essential for tumorigenesis .
In a mouse model of endotoxemia , DSCR - 1s - deficient mice demonstrated increased sepsis mortality , whereas adenovirus - mediated DSCR - 1s overexpression protected against LPS - induced lethality .
High expression of c - Ski has been found in some cancers , including gastric cancer .
METHODS : Expression of MMP - 9 was studied in human NPC cell lines cultured in vitro : CNE1 ( well differentiated cell line of NPC ) and CNE1 - GL ( CNE1 cell line transfected with an eukaryotic LMP1 - expression plasmid ) by SP immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis .
BMSVTs immortalized with hTERT formed large colonies in vitro and small transient tumours in vivo .
Optimizing treatment of choroidal neovascularization feeder vessels associated with age - related macular degeneration .
We performed immunohistochemical staining of EphA2 and E - cadherin with EphA2 and E - cadherin monoclonal antibodies in samples from 194 primary lesions of colorectal cancer .
Experimental drug therapy of peritumoral brain edema .
CD154 , but not CD40 expression , significantly correlated with tumor stage .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is one of the most potent and a specific regulator of angiogenesis which principally targets endothelial cells and regulates several of their functions , including mitogenesis , permeability and migration .
To identify the underlying mechanism involved in such growth - factor / serum independent growth of Galpha ( 12 ) QL - transformed NIH3T3 , we carried out a two - dimensional differential proteome analysis of Galpha ( 12 ) QL - transformed NIH3T3 cells and cells expressing vector control .
EPOX inhibits angiogenesis by degradation of Mcl - 1 through ERK inactivation .
Relationship of p53 and Helicobacter pylori to clinicopathological features of human remnant stomach cancer after gastric surgery for primary gastric cancer .
After 1 week of treatment , before an increase in capillary length density , VEGF mRNA increased greater than 2 - fold and then declined to control levels after 3 weeks of treatment .
The different expression / activation of apoptosis - related factors appears to influence the sensitization of prostate carcinoma cells by TRAIL .
Protein up - regulation of HER2 in the epithelium with metaplasia or carcinoma in situ was not accompanied by HER2 gene amplification .
While the study of angiogenesis as a phenomenon is still in an early phase , it has become possible , by using a combination of in vitro and in vivo techniques , to more thoroughly understand the initiation and control of capillary growth .
We have been investigating which coagulation factors simultaneously , or subsequently with platelet aggregation , participate in thrombus formation .
Papilloma formation was observed in both the DMBA - TPA - and DMBA - Cum - OOH - exposed animals , whereas skin carcinomas were found only in the DMBA - Cum - OOH - treated mice .
Homeostatic functions of the p53 tumor suppressor : regulation of energy metabolism and antioxidant defense .
The parameters considered are the number of platelets and their aggregability , prothrombin and partial thromboplastin times , plasma fibrinogen concentration and tumor cell procoagulant activity .
Analysis of gene expression revealed increased expression of ANGPT1 , ANGPT2 , platelet - derived growth factor - B , placental growth factor , and VEGF mRNA in AdCA5 - injected eyes .
Four weeks after cell transplantation , reverse transcriptase - polymerase chain reaction ( RT - PCR ) and immunohistochemistry for vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , VIII - factor immunohistochemistry for vessel density , TUNEL , caspase - 3 for cardiomyocyte apoptosis , echocardiography and hemodynamic detection for heart function were performed .
Downstream targets of Plexin C1 signaling in human melanocytes include cofilin and LIM kinase II , both of which are critical mediators of cell adhesion and migration .
These results indicate that HIF - 1 functions as a master regulator of angiogenesis by controlling the expression of multiple angiogenic growth factors and that adenovirus - mediated expression of a constitutively active form of HIF - 1alpha is sufficient to induce angiogenesis in nonischemic tissue of an adult animal .
Serum IL - 6 levels correlate with tumor stage , and survival of patients .
METHODOLOGY / PRINCIPAL FINDINGS : Gene expression was analyzed by quantitative RT - PCR on islets isolated from 10 - week - old diabetic GK and control Wistar rats .
These results suggest that p24delta1 and possibly other p24 family proteins are required for normal insulin biosynthesis and subsequent secretion in pancreatic beta - cells .
The antiproliferative and anti - migratory mechanisms of HTPB were investigated by cell proliferation , flow cytometry , DNA ladder , caspase activity , Rho activity , F - actin polymerization , and gelatin - zymography for matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) .
RESULTS : Vandetanib treatment had no effect on tumor cell clonogenic cell survival in vitro but doses > or = 10 nM significantly reduced endothelial cell migration .
Here , we demonstrate that Ang1 halts the ability of VEGF to induce the phosphorylation - dependent redistribution of the adhesion molecule VE - cadherin , thereby rescuing the endothelial barrier function .
TNFalpha is an important inflammation cytokine and is crucial to the development of inflammation - associated cancers .
KISS1 hypermethylation was frequent in bladder cancer cells analyzed by methylation - specific PCR and bisulfite sequencing and was associated with low gene expression , being restored in vitro by demethylating azacytidine .
KISS1 transcript expression was also associated with histopathological tumor stage ( P < 0 . 0005 ) .
Our results suggest that formation of a ternary complex of VEGF165 , KDR , and NRP1 potentiates VEGF165 binding to KDR .
OBJECTIVE : p53 plays a role in tumor angiogenesis , and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) plays a key role in tumor angiogenesis .
An image analysis system was also used to quantify the proportion of tumor nuclei with MDM2 staining ( ACIS index ) and staining intensity .
It is proposed that these proteins be called , respectively , p40xI and p37xII .
Moreover , the conditioned medium from TFs was found to be able to promote ESCC tumor cell growth , migration , and invasion in vitro .
Reduced expression of E - cadherin , an intercellular adhesion molecule of epithelial cells , has been reported to be associated with aggressive clinicopathological phenotypes in various cancers .
CONCLUSIONS : We have established a model to study the regulation of angiogenesis by human adipose tissue .
A small GTPase Arf6 primarily regulates recycling of plasma membrane components .
Recent studies revealed that p21WAF1 protects cells from apoptosis by arresting them in G1 and further binds to pro - caspase - 3 , preventing its activation and thus , inhibiting the apoptotic cascade .
Hypoxia - inducible factor 1 ( HIF - 1 ) activates vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) gene expression in hypoxic / ischemic tissue .
The mechanism of caffeine seems to involve the inhibition of the extracellular signal - regulated kinase 1 / 2 ( ERK1 / 2 ) , p38 , and Akt , leading to a marked decrease in adenosine - induced HIF - 1alpha accumulation , VEGF transcriptional activation , and VEGF and IL - 8 protein accumulation .
The enhancing factors are proteins related to the family of the transforming growth factors ( TGFs ) by their molecular weight ( about 20 kd ) , their heat and acid resistance , and their sensitivity to dithiothreitol .
Our results suggest heterogeneity in angiogenic activity and vessel maturation of CC - RCC , to a large extent linked to nuclear grade , and , with probable therapeutic implications .
Results show that the process : VEGF - a - - greater than EphA2 - - greater than MMPs - - greater than VM is the main pathway for VM formation and VEGF - a appears to play an important role in the formation of VM based on our in vitro assays and clinical immunohistochemical analyses .
The importance of NO in the vasculature is demonstrated by several experimental conditions , such as vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) - induced angiogenesis .
Restored DCC expression in the cancer cell lines in the absence of netrin - 1 induced apoptosis .
The grafts were implanted in the abdominal aortic position of 24 dogs autologously .
These new insights into the involvement of syndecans in disease and tissue repair coupled with the emergence of syndecan - specific molecular tools may lead to novel therapies for a variety of human diseases .
Mutating tp53 did not rescue the infertility phenotype in brca2 mutant males , suggesting that brca2 plays an essential role in zebrafish spermatogenesis .
p53 - deficient cancers are often unstable , aggressive , and resistant to therapy .
These data suggest that magnolol promoted apoptosis probably by alleviating the inhibitory effect of Akt on caspase 9 .
14 diabetics with chronic nonhealing wounds which did not respond to treatment for at least 3 months were treated by HBO .
Angiostatin and thalidomide both inhibited tumor growth by about 55 % .
The initial rate of 14CO2 release from D - [ 1 - 14C ] glucose supplied in the medium was much greater for L . Se ( + ) or K . Se ( + ) cells than for their respective Se ( - ) counterparts , consistent with greater hexose monophosphate shunt activity in the former .
Many studies on carcinogenesis carried out early in the last century are united on the consensus that cancer is a genetic disease .
A key role for the integrin alpha2beta1 in experimental and developmental angiogenesis .
bFGF was loaded into the heparin functionalized ( PLGA - heparin ) microspheres by a simple dipping method .
Laminin - 332 is critical for squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) tumorigenesis , but targeting it for cancer therapy has been unachievable due to key role of laminin - 332 in promoting tissue integrity .
The interval between primary surgery and the appearance of gastric cancer in the remnant stomach was significantly shorter in the RSCM group than in the RSCB group .
Natl .
These data provide the first demonstration of IGF - I / II expression in the human lung in early gestation and indicate that the IGF family of growth factors , acting through the IGF - IR , is required as a survival factor during normal human lung vascularization .
HIF - 2alpha expression in human fetal paraganglia and neuroblastoma : relation to sympathetic differentiation , glucose deficiency , and hypoxia .
In DNA from the T - cells not expressing DR alpha mRNA , all of the potential HpaII sites within the BglII fragment appeared to be methylated .
The angiogenic action of thrombin has been shown to be mediated by activation of the thrombin receptor .
RESULTS : There was a positive correlation between plasma fibrinogen levels and the depth of invasion ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
The dual function of Id - 1 , inhibition of differentiation , and stimulation of cell proliferation , might be interdependent , as cell differentiation is generally coupled with the exit from the cell cycle .
In the present study , we performed a series of molecular imaging experiments using a HIF - 1 - dependent reporter gene , 5HREp - ODD - luc , and found an essential role of the Akt / mTOR pathway .
Desensitization could be induced in NIH - 3T3 cells by culturing under conditions where the cells were all in the exponential growth phase , or by a 12 h exposure to a C - kinase - activating phorbol ester .
One hundred mg / body / day of TS - 1 was orally administrated for 4 weeks .
PURPOSE : To evaluate alterations in the retinal vasculature overlying pigment epithelial detachments ( PED ) in exudative age - related macular degeneration ( ARMD ) using indocyanine green and fluorescein angiography .
Many of these alterations parallel those observed in human patients suffering from cancer cachexia making canine lymphoma a potential model for further study of the pathogenesis and therapy of cancer cachexia .
Thus , mutation of beclin 1 or other autophagy genes may contribute to the pathogenesis of human cancers .
CONCLUSIONS : PDT can reduce the clinical signs of activity , such as choroidal hyperpermeability or neurosensorial retinal detachment , in patients affected by chronic CSC .
These new functions of p53 are providing interesting possibilities for the development of novel therapies .
For patients with limb threatening ischaemia the only option for relief of rest pain or gangraena is amputation .
We used a cellular model of tumor invasion to investigate the effect of activated platelets on the human ovarian cancer cell line , SKOV3 .
METHODS : We used ribonuclease protection assays to analyze human colon tumors for the level of nm23 - H1 ( 43 samples ) and nm23 - H2 ( 41 samples ) transcript ( mRNA ) expression and the presence of mutations that could inactivate potential suppressor function .
Finally , DNase I footprint analysis with a segment of the promoter containing these elements reveals the binding of several nuclear proteins .
In patients with atherosclerotic vascular diseases , collateral vessels bypassing major arterial obstructions have frequently been observed .
In the latter , VEGF colocalized with the advanced glycation end product pentosidine deposits .
Mitochondrial complex II , or succinate dehydrogenase , is a key enzymatic complex involved in both the tricarboxylic acid ( TCA ) cycle and oxidative phosphorylation as part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain .
After the completion of skin development , angiogenesis , i . e . , the growth of new capillaries from pre - existing blood vessels , is held to occur in the skin only under pathologic conditions .
Molecular mediators of interactions with extracellular matrix components in metastasis and angiogenesis .
As a consequence , these tumors generate more lactate , which is effluxed from cells by monocarboxylate transporters ( MCTs ) .
We further show that in extracts from caspase - 3 - deficient MCF - 7 cells , procaspase - 9 processing is strongly impaired after stimulation with either cytochrome c or recombinant caspase - 8 .
RESULTS : 89 . 5 % ( n = 238 ) of NSCLC revealed LDH5 expression whereas LDH5 expression was not detected in non neoplastic lung tissues ( n = 34 ) ( p < 0 . 0001 ) .
Hypoxia - inducible factor 1 activation by aerobic glycolysis implicates the Warburg effect in carcinogenesis .
In these transformants , mitogen depletion elicited an increase in the Rb level comparable to that in normal C2 cells ; wt SVLT , however , promoted the phosphorylation of a large part of the induced Rb .
By using immunohistochemistry , Western blot , and real - time PCR the expression patterns of TSP - 1 , TSP - 2 , CD36 , CD47 , MMP - 2 , and MMP - 9 were investigated in normal rat prostate tissue and five malignant Dunning sublines tissue .
1 - Tetradecylpyrrolidine N - oxide ( TPNO ) , one of the most active compounds , immediately after addition to the suspension of Ehrlich cells in an ice bath , decreased the level of ATP to the same extent over the whole concentration range .
These chemicals differ from the direct - acting mutagens tested previously .
Caspase 8 ( involved in non - mitochondrial extrinsic pathway ) and caspase 9 ( involved in mitochondrial intrinsic pathway ) were also activated , but to a much lesser extent .
Each group was also divided into two subgroups according to poor and good CCC .
Among these are vascular endothelial growth factor - A ( VEGF - A ) , the key angiogenic stimulant , and VEGF - C , a primary mediator of lymphangiogenesis .
RESULTS : Both wild - type and mutant PTEN can upregulate the expression of PTEN gene dramatically ; however , it is wild - type PTEN not phosphatase - inactive PTEN that can induce apoptosis and decrease cell migration , invasion and proliferation in ovarian cancer cells .
RESULTS : Chang hepatocytes grown in the coculture conditioned media have an increase in TNF - alpha and Fas ligand .
Organ biodistribution studies revealed that galectin - 3C localized in the liver , kidneys , and spleen but not in the heart or lungs .
TSP interacts with a number of proteases and receptors and in this way inhibits stimulation of angiogenesis .
However , recent identification of a high - Km glucose phosphorylating activity in a range of cancer cells prompted us to characterize glucose phosphorylating enzymes of cancer cells at the molecular level .
Patients with low or absence expressing SPARC had significantly worse overall survival and disease - free survival in a Single Factor Analysis ; Cox Regression Analysis , SPARC emerged as an overall survival and disease - free survival independent prognostic factor for colon cancer .
Randomized , open label , prospective study on the effect of zoledronic acid on the prevention of bone metastases in patients with recurrent solid tumors that did not present with bone metastases at baseline .
Here , we showed that proapoptotic activity of HDACi was robustly enhanced by E1A in multiple cancer cells , but not in normal cells .
Extensive regulation contributes to normal growth control , abrogation of regulatory controls contributes to uncontrolled growth as seen with erb B transformation and EGF receptor gene amplification in human tumors .
Low glucose potentiated the effect of hypoxia .
Untransformed CEF and CEF transformed with Rous sarcoma virus also migrated to 9E3 / CEF4 protein , as measured by Boyden single - membrane analysis .
Thus , p21 coupled p53 - dependent checkpoint control and preservation of chromosomal stability , and cooperated with apoptosis in suppressing tumor onset in mice .
In addition , VEGF might be associated with the etiology of periodontitis in its early stages according to neovascularization stimulated by periodontal pathogens causing swelling and edema .
Cells were perifused in the presence of 5 mM glucose , 0 . 5 mM glutamine or 5 mM glucose and 0 . 5 mM glutamine .
Our data may have implications for the development of novel regimens for diabetic retinopathy .
Loss of tumor suppressor proteins , which function as brakes on cell growth , migration , or cell survival , was recognized early on as an important mechanism for initiation and progression of melanoma .
We reported earlier on the oncogenic properties of Grm1 by demonstrating that stable Grm1 - mouse - melanocytic clones proliferate in the absence of growth supplement and anchorage in vitro .
Hamsters were treated with either radiation , DMBA , radiation + DMBA , or no treatment .
Analysis of the LTR region reveals a potential internal promoter element for RNA polymerase III transcription within the U3 region .
Targeting angiogenesis : progress with anti - VEGF treatment with large molecules .
OBJECTIVE : In the present study , we attempted to identify EGFR and TGF - alpha expression and Ki - 67 index in carcinoma ex - pleomorphic adenoma ( Ca ex - PA ) and PA .
Recently , it was shown that Stat3 is activated through novel and noncanonical mechanisms , including phosphorylation at S727 .
In each experimental situation , the casts provided a valuable three dimensional representation of the newly formed blood vessels and permitted subclassification of the vessels within normal and proliferating vascular networks .
HGF constitutively produced VEGF and levels were significantly enhanced ( P less than 0 . 01 ) by stimulation with Ve and OMP from A . actinomycetemcomitans and P . gingivalis at concentrations of 10 microg / ml or higher .
Crucial genetic events underlying the initiation and progression of colorectal and pancreatic adenocarcinoma with a particular focus on the modulation of angiogenesis and antiangiogenic therapies are discussed .
They exhibited specific and high - affinity binding of somatostatin - 14 , somatostatin - 28 and octreotide , suggesting a preferential expression of the SSTR2 receptor subtype .
Brk1 is required for cell proliferation and cell transformation by oncogenes .
The effect of wild - type or mutant survivin was investigated on capillary network stability , endothelial cell viability , and caspase activation in vitro and on kinetics of tumor growth and development of angiogenesis in a breast cancer xenograft model in vivo .
Additional mechanistic studies further suggested that the ability of circulating cancer cells to extravasate to surrounding lung tissues was linked to the activation of the vascular endothelium via one or more Galpha ( i ) - coupled receptors .
Considering also that clusterin is downregulated during prostate cancer onset and progression , and that its upregulation has inhibited DNA synthesis and cell cycle progression of immortalized human prostate epithelial cells , we suggest that clusterin might be a new anti - oncogene in the prostate .
The UV - irradiated cells demonstrated enhanced tumorigenicity and metastatic potential in nude mice .
The sensitivity and specificity of s - VEGF at the cut - off level of 100 pg / ml , as determined by the receiver - operating - characteristics curve , were 80 . 0 % and 72 . 5 % , respectively .
This phenomenon occurs at mast cell / tumor ratios which reflect the stoichiometry of host cell / tumor relationships in vivo .
The discovery that this gene is also frequently mutated in human leukemia has increased the interest in the role that RUNX1 plays in both normal and transforming pathways .
Increased expression of specific protein tyrosine phosphatases in human breast epithelial cells neoplastically transformed by the neu oncogene .
During normal skin function , p53 in the keratinocyte is a transducer of the skin tanning signal and an essential component of what is effectively a keratinocyte - melanocyte signaling cycle that regulates skin pigmentation .
Recent advances have fostered a more detailed understanding of molecular mechanisms and networks governing EMT in tumor progression .
The deregulated Bcr / Abl tyrosine kinase is responsible for the development of Philadelphia ( Ph ) - positive leukemia in humans .
The results demonstrate the possibility to generate monospecific divalent and tetravalent antibodies , immunocytokines , and dual specificity tetravalent antibodies .
In addition , cisplatin markedly reduced MMP2 activity in both conditioned media and cell lysates , increased p38 MAPK and JNK phosphorylation , but did not affect ERK phosphorylation .
Magnolol , a substance purified from the bark of Magnolia officialis , inhibits cell proliferation and induces apoptosis in a variety of cancer cells .
Plasminogen activator ( PA ) content of excised tumors was determined by SDS - PAGE , and major PA was found to be urokinase ( UK ) type .
Positron emission tomography ( PET ) imaging has become a useful tool for assessing early biologic response to cancer therapy and may be particularly useful in the development of new cancer therapeutics .
N - ( Phosphonacetyl ) - L - aspartate ( PALA ) suppressed the growth of Ehrlich ascites tumour cells in vivo in a dose - dependent manner .
Therefore , the phenotypic traits of the miR - BHRF1 - 2 null mutant could result partly from reduced miR - BHRF1 - 1 and miR - BHRF1 - 3 expression levels .
Conditioned medium from progestin - treated breast cancer cells stimulates endothelial cell proliferation in the absence though not in the presence of antibody to TSP - 1 , indicating that TSP - 1 secreted by breast cancer cells could be pro - angiogenic .
The effects of PDFs with different amounts of GDPs were compared on morphological changes in the peritoneal membrane in a RAGE - / - mouse model .
DNA methylation and expression of HLA - DR alpha .
Restoration occurred in the presence of a protein synthesis inhibitor but not after a transcriptional block , indicating that c - myc is a direct , transcriptionally regulated target of c - Myb .
However , as yet , there is no genetic evidence for a role of autophagy genes in tumor suppression .
Consistent with this hypothesis , co - injection of VPF / VEGF together with OPN resulted in rapid cleavage of OPN by endogenous thrombin .
Nitric oxide ( NO ) plays an important role in maintaining vascular homeostasis .
Diacylglycerol ( DG ) plays a central role in phospholipid metabolism and is an endogenous activator of protein kinase C .
Individuals with MEN IIA should therefore undergo early prophylactic thyroidectomy once the diagnosis is confirmed by molecular genetic testing .
Activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 through a phosphomimetic serine 727 promotes prostate tumorigenesis independent of tyrosine 705 phosphorylation .
As such , sustained nuclear FOXO3a expression in breast cancer may culminate in cancer progression and the development of an aggressive phenotype similar to that observed in cytotoxic chemotherapy resistant breast cancer cell models .
This treatment also changed the mitochondrial membrane potential in both MG - 63 and SaOS - 2 cells within 1h , caused chromatin condensation and the formation of apoptotic bodies .
In invasive NM - e - ras - MAC1 cells , where E - cadherin was partially downregulated by specific antisense RNA , syndecan - 1 expression was suppressed .
Thus , we identified for the first time that honokiol provided therapeutic benefit not only by direct effects on tumor cells and antiangiogenesis but also by inhibiting lymphangiogenesis and metastasis via the VEGFR - 3 pathway .
Patients whose tumors were CD40 - negative showed a significantly better N stage , overall stage at presentation and survival than those patients with CD40 - positive patients .
Overexpression of Bax inhibitor - 1 ( BI - 1 ) induces cell transformation in NIH3T3 cells .
Bradycardia was induced in rats by administering the bradycardic drug alinidine ( 3 mg / kg body weight ) twice daily .
ICAM - 3 enhances the migratory and invasive potential of human non - small cell lung cancer cells by inducing MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 via Akt and CREB .
Sorafenib treatment led to accumulation of autophagosomes as evidenced by conversion from LC3 - I to LC3 - II observed by immunoblot in Huh7 , HLF and PLC / PRF / 5 cells .
The results showed that thrombospondin is expressed in normal prostate but not in prostate tumours in a rat model .
Matrix metalloproteinases can collectively cleave all components of the extracellular matrix , with the endogenous tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 regulating their activity .
In conclusion , the decrease in c - Myc expression enhanced the VLB sensitivity , triggering earlier apoptosis through induction of the intrinsic pathway .
Evi - 1 associates with CtBP1 through one of the CtBP - binding consensus motifs within the region from amino acid 544 to 607 , and this association is required for the efficient inhibition of TGF - beta signaling .
However , the pathophysiologic role of CD154 expressed by tumor cells remains unclear .
Deletion of the proline - rich domain of VASP abolishes its ability to bind profilin but does not affect ruffling or stress fiber formation .
We propose that the upregulation of the secreted FGF - BP protein during early phases of pancreas and colon cancer could make this protein a possible serum marker indicating the presence of high - risk premalignant lesions .
In cervical cancer cells , paclitaxel induced apoptosis through an intrinsic pathway with prior G2 / M arrest .
The p53 gene is inactivated in about 50 % of human cancers and the p53 protein is an essential component of the cell response induced by genotoxic stresses such as those generated by radiotherapy or chemotherapy .
The study presented here examined the ability of specific regions and activities of T antigen to modulate apoptosis in cells treated with the genotoxic agent 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) .
Active SHP - 2 then dephosphorylates VEGFR - 2 at Y951 , Y996 and Y1059 , but not Y1175 .
The role of fibrinolysis in growth and metastasis was examined in Lewis lung carcinoma of mice .
We also show that Akt pathway mediates IGF1 - R - induced Bcl - x ( L ) expression at transcriptional level .
In addition , syndecans bind to obesity - related factors and regulate their signaling , in turn modulating food consumption and weight balance .
On the other hand , when cells were pre - incubated in glucose - supplemented medium , oxygen consumption was affected only when succinate was used as the oxidizable substrate .
Therapeutic targeting of the survivin pathway in cancer : initiation of mitochondrial apoptosis and suppression of tumor - associated angiogenesis .
Apart from the vascular grade , none of the other factors examined was statistically related to lymph node metastasis ( P less than 0 . 0001 ) .
Reduced growth - factor dependent , autonomous cell growth forms a critical defining point at which a normal cell turns into an oncogenic one .
We tested this using HT - 1080 , NCI , and Shac fibrosarcoma - derived cell lines and anthrax lethal toxin ( LeTx ) , a bacterial toxin that inactivates MKKs .
Thus , antiapoptotic mechanisms have to be operative in neuroblastoma cells that antagonize the proapoptotic effects of N - myc .
Mutation analysis of latent membrane protein 1 ( LMP1 ) in Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) - induced B - cell immortalization revealed two transformation effector sites , TES1 and TES2 .
Adult mutants became sterile males due to the meiotic arrest of spermatocytes , which then died by apoptosis , followed by neoplastic proliferation of gonad somatic cells that was similar to neoplasia observed in ageing dead end ( dnd ) - knockdown males , which lack germ cells .
Crosstalk between these two pathways is also thought to contribute to progression and hormone - refractory prostate disease .
Most anti - angiogenic therapies for malignant gliomas are in Phase I / II trials and only modest efficacies are reported for monotherapies .
Green fluorescence protein transfected cancer cells were injected into the mammary fat pad of young female mice .
In 3 days , 1 week , 2 weeks , 3 weeks and 4 weeks after surgery , the MVD of test group was significantly higher than that of control group .
We now report that a nearby residue , Thr - 495 , also appears to be phosphorylated .
Tail vein injection of N - ( 1 - ( 2 , 3 - dioleoyloxy ) propyl ) - N , N , N - trimethylammonium chloride ( DOTAP ) / cholesterol lipoplexes resulted in increased lipoplex entrapment in hypervascularized liver but did not boost luciferase expression , suggesting that lipoplex delivery is not a sufficient condition for efficient organ lipofection .
Induction of IL - 8 was UV - B dose dependent and blocked by cyclohexamide , indicating that de novo protein synthesis is required for its expression .
For patients with adenocarcinomas in the lung , TTF - 1 staining is now routinely used to distinguish a primary lung cancer from a lung metastasis .
TS and DPD proteins were overexpressed in primary OSCC compared to that in normal mucosa .
Mutant mice lacking both cyclin - dependent kinase ( CDK ) inhibitors p18 ( Ink4c ) and p27 ( Kip1 ) develop a tumor spectrum reminiscent of human multiple endocrine neoplasia ( MEN ) syndromes .
Tumor cells adapt to hypoxia by modulating their phenotype .
Chronic inflammation is a common underlying condition for human tumor development , accounting for approximately 20 % of human cancers .
Given the dominant role of p21 in p53 cell cycle control , we crossed Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) mice onto a p21 - null background to determine whether p21 was required for maintaining chromosomal stability and delaying tumor onset .
PTEN promoter hypermethylation is a major epigenetic silencing mechanism leading to activation of angiogenesis in tumors .
CONCLUSIONS : Rab5a and Rab7a regulate VEGFR2 trafficking toward early and late endosomes .
MATERIAL AND METHODS : Human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVEC ) were treated with cisplatin and endothelial cell migration analyzed by fluorescence and scratch - wound migration assay .
The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of tricyclic antidepressant desipramine ( DMI ) on the growth inhibition and translocation of the glucocorticoid receptor ( GR ) from the cytoplasm to the nucleus in cancerous and noncancerous cell lines and the effect of DMI on GR - mediated transcription .
In an experiment in which vitamin E inhibited carcinogenesis , it was found that tumour angiogenesis and tumour growth - factor alpha ( TGF alpha ) expression were also inhibited .
Adjuvant chemotherapy is recommended after resection in selected high - risk patients with stage II disease and in all patients with stage III disease .
Sanguinarine induces apoptosis of human osteosarcoma cells through the extrinsic and intrinsic pathways .
We situate invasion within microecosystems comprising neoplastic cells as well as host cells .
Circulating endothelial cells and their precursors declined and remained low in responders , whereas plasma vascular endothelial growth factor trended to decline in responding patients but increase in nonresponders .
Our initial investigations show that the naturally occurring organoselenium compound selenomethionine ( SM ) and the synthetic 1 , 4 - phenylenebis ( methylene ) selenocyanate ( p - XSC ) can inhibit human prostate cancer cell viability ; however , in contrast to SM , p - XSC is active at physiologically relevant doses .
Multivariate analysis demonstrated that alpha - SMA and lymph node metastasis were identified as independent predictive factors of metastasis .
Molecular biology of cervical cancer and its precursors .
These data strongly implicate the BR - SMADs as part of a critical developmental pathway in ovaries and testis that , when disrupted , leads to malignant transformation .
Each consists of repetitive cycles of interaction with adjacent extracellular matrix components by mediating cellular adhesion , matrix dissolution , and cellular motility to achieve metastasis of cancer cells or neovascularization of tumors .
As chicken embryo fibroblasts are devoid of EGF receptors , their activity is not potentiated by EGF .
Exposure of SKOV - 3 cells to paclitaxel or carboplatin along with 317615 2HCl resulted in cell survivals that reflected additivity of 317615 x 2HCl with paclitaxel and greater - than - additive cytotoxicity with carboplatin .
KISS1 methylation was associated with low KISS1 transcript expression by quantitative RT - PCR ( P = 0 . 037 ) .
RESULTS : PLD was significantly higher than ILD ( p < . 001 ) .
Although the Bcl - 2 and Bax levels were significantly higher in spheroids , Bcl - 2 / Bax ratio was similar in monolayers and spheroids .
The present study was designed to investigate the effect of transplanted MSCs from rats of different ages on the improvement of heart function after AMI .
Antivascular actions of microtubule - binding drugs .
In contrast , no leukemia was observed with a myb IRES virus , with spliced vectors containing v - erbA alone or v - erbA in combination with v - myb , nor with erbA IRES and erbA / myb IRES viruses produced in the absence of helper virus .
Ang - 2 - deficient tumor vessels had higher pericyte coverage indices .
Osteoclast - like cells and tartarate resistant acid phosphatase ( TRAP ) activities were then quantitated .
Expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA increased in 33 of 41 colon tumors , and expression of nm23 - H2 mRNA was elevated in 28 of 41 colon tumors relative to that in matched normal mucosa .
The level of apoptosis correlated directly with the expression level of the receptor , indicating that p75 may activate the cell death program directly .
However , it is clear that the Notch signaling pathway mediates its effects through intercellular contact between neighboring cells .
Membrane - anchored Cbl suppresses Hck protein - tyrosine kinase mediated cellular transformation .
We tested the hypothesis that vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , an endothelial cell mitogen and a major regulator of angiogenesis , is upregulated in response to low heart rate and consequential increased stroke volume .
HGF were stimulated with lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) , vesicle ( Ve ) and outer membrane protein ( OMP ) from Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans and Porphyromonas gingivalis .
These data provide further evidence of the existing relationship between pro - inflammatory molecules and ovarian cancer progression .
The increased energy expended by the host to synthesize substrate , which is utilized by the tumor , is a potential cause of cancer cachexia .
Pathological analysis indicated that generated tumors corresponded to well - differentiated fibrosarcomas with distinct and intersecting bundles and spindle cells .
This mutant enhanced the steady - level and transcriptional activity of ER .
Protection from experimental ocular herpetic keratitis by a heat - killed virus vaccine .
However , current data do not conclusively show evidence of angiogenesis per se in these conditions , despite ( for example ) the presence of high levels of VEGF and Ang - 2 .
OBJECTIVE : Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 ( VEGFR2 ) is a receptor tyrosine kinase that regulates vascular physiology .
However , E mu - directed coexpression of cyclin D1 and N - MYC or L - MYC in double transgenic mice reveals a strong cooperative effect between MYC and cyclin D1 provoking the rapid development of clonal pre - B and B - cell lymphomas .
This metastatic ability was enhanced remarkably after in vivo tumor growth ( subcutaneous tumor formation in nude mice ) accompanied by increased mRNA expression and gene amplification of the human - derived K - ras oncogene , while it declined gradually as the passage number increased in vitro , with corresponding decreases of gene amplification and mRNA expression .
Furthermore , Cox regression analysis showed that CYR61 and CTGF expression had a significant correlation with patient survival .
Ectopic PTTG overexpression in a representative ESCC cell line , EC9706 , increased in vitro cell migration and invasion and promoted in vivo lymph node metastasis .
In the embryonic stem cells homozygous for these hypomorphic Apc alleles , the level of the APC protein was inversely correlated with both the beta - catenin accumulation and beta - catenin / T - cell factor transcriptional activity .
Intensity and patterns of localization in blood vessels was consistent in various tissues , but varied among different regions of the vascular bed .
The time courses of changes in MMP - 1 , bone growth factors ( TGF - beta1 and bFGF ) , and hGH , respectively , correlated significantly during the lengthening phase , indicating common regulatory pathways for these factors in distraction osteogenesis .
However , no published data are available concerning the biological and clinical significance of COUP - TFII expression in colorectal cancer .
Ploidy analysis was carried out on 39 EOGCs and immunohistochemistry of CDC4 / FBXW7 and its substrates c - myc , c - jun , Notch and cyclin E was performed on 204 gastric carcinomas using tissue microarrays ( TMAs ) .
In contrast , cancer cells depend mostly on glycolysis , the aerobic breakdown of glucose into ATP .
Although there was no significant difference of the H . pylori positivity between the two groups , the rate for both groups was higher than reported in previous studies .
Analysis of VLB cytotoxicity demonstrated a 3 - fold increase in VLB sensitivity in LoVo - mycANS cells .
Neoplastic transformation and tumorigenesis associated with overexpression of phospholipase D isozymes in cultured murine fibroblasts .
No harmful side effects were attributed to TEMF .
Glycolysis and glutaminolysis in perifused Ehrlich ascites tumour cells .
Counteracting islet endothelial cell inflammation might be one way to ameliorate / prevent beta - cell dysfunction in type 2 diabetes .
p18Ink4c , but not p27Kip1 , collaborates with Men1 to suppress neuroendocrine organ tumors .
sVAP - 1 is also an independent predictive marker for lymph node metastasis .
Platelets , therefore , may represent a potential target for therapeutic intervention in human ovarian cancer .
MMP2 and MMP9 activity were determined by zymographic assay , and MAPK activation by Western blotting analysis .
Inhibition of the mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) by rapamycin increases chemosensitivity of CaSki cells to paclitaxel .
Blocking the activation of p44 / 42 mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) by the specific mitogen - induced extracellular kinase ( MEK ) inhibitor , U0126 , impaired modestly the ability of FVIIa to promote cell survival .
An immunohistochemical analysis revealed that Ets - 1 accumulated in migrating cells at the wound edge and returned to basal level when reendothelialization was accomplished .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : Both bone marrow and peripheral blood samples from 810 gastric cancer patients were collected at the Central Hospital , National Cancer Center ( Tokyo , Japan ) .
The hypothesis was that therapy with NH ( 2 ) - terminally truncated form of galectin - 3 ( galectin - 3C ) will be efficacious for reduction in tumor growth and for inhibition of metastases .
This creates a network of Hedgehog signaling that determines the malignant behavior of the tumor cells .
The application of molecular technology may play an important role for the differential diagnosis between synchronous primary carcinomas and a single carcinoma with metastasis .
The p53 tumor suppressor plays pivotal role in the organism by supervising strict compliance of individual cells to needs of the whole organisms .
Here we review and comment on these findings and on their implications for cancer biology .
However , we demonstrate a novel and more complex role for PSMA in angiogenesis , where it is a principal component of a regulatory loop that is tightly modulating laminin - specific integrin signaling and GTPase - dependent , p21 - activated kinase 1 ( PAK - 1 ) activity .
The B ( 1 ) R distribution pattern mirrored that of HER2 except that B ( 1 ) R was additionally observed in the adenomas .
Malate - citrate cycle during glycolysis and glutaminolysis in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells .
This primitive vascular network is extensively remodeled in some places , and expanded by sprouting in others .
IL - 8 may present a novel therapeutic target for estrogen driven breast carcinogenesis and tumor progression .
In mice , xenografts of human glioblastoma U87MG , which has decreased expression of ING4 , grow significantly faster and have higher vascular volume fractions than control tumours .
In a first step , proteins were selected which showed a relationship to lymph node involvement .
Melissoidesin G , a diterpenoid purified from Isodon melissoides , induces leukemic - cell apoptosis through induction of redox imbalance and exhibits synergy with other anticancer agents .
Genes most significantly represented in this program are those with roles in cell growth and proliferation > protein synthesis > gene expression > cell death > cell cycle .
Molecular factors which implement this triad of events are reviewed , as are several signal transduction components which may regulate them .
Estradiol increases IL - 8 secretion of normal human breast tissue and breast cancer in vivo .
These data show that disrupting cytostructure activates the angiogenic switch even in the absence of proliferation and / or hypoxia and restoring organization of malignant clusters reduces VEGF expression and EC activation to levels found in quiescent nonmalignant epithelium .
Expression of CDK4 or CDK2 in mouse oral cavity is retained in adult pituitary with distinct effects on tumorigenesis .
In this work , we show that an 11 - amino acid peptide derived from the second immunoglobulin - like domain of Flt - 1 functions as an angiogenic inhibitor in chick chorioallantoic membrane and inhibited VEGF - induced vascular permeability in Miles ' assay without binding to VEGF directly .
To address this question further , we analyzed the expression of c - myc in a myeloblastic cell line , M1 , expressing a conditionally active c - Myb - estrogen receptor fusion protein ( MybER ) .
We have previously reported that dihydroartemisinin is found to have a potent ability in influencing lymphatic endothelial cell migration and tube formation .
Such cases may be considered either examples of a single primary carcinoma with metastasis or as synchronous primary neoplasms .
To examine whether IFI16 induction might be extended to other proinflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) - alpha , we used the strategy of the RNA interference to knock down IFI16 expression , and analyze the capability of TNF - alpha to stimulate intercellular adhesion molecule - 1 ( ICAM - 1 or CD54 ) expression in the absence of functional IFI16 .
Moreover , expression of a dominant negative AP - 2 protein , AP - 2delta ( deleted residues 31 - 117 ) , not only repressed the ErbB - 3 promoter activity but also suppressed endogenous ErbB - 3 transcription in the ErbB - 3 overexpressing cell line MRC - 5VA .
Human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) and rat aorta smooth muscle cells ( RASMCs ) infected with AdCMV . VEGF165 ( 5 and 20 plaque - forming units [ pfu ] per cell ) demonstrated VEGF mRNA expression and protein secretion into the supernatant .
There have been no reports showing the relativity of invasive breast cancer and the desmoplastic reaction by a quantitative analysis of the myofibroblasts that were an important player in the desmoplastic reaction .
The scope of the present review is to discuss from a clinical point of view the potential interactions between VEGF and angiopoietins in the asthmatic airways , and focus on the therapeutic implications targeting for these angiogenic factors .
In this report , we demonstrate that murine bone marrow contains endothelial progenitors , which arise from a cell with self - renewing capacity , and can integrate into tumor microvasculature , albeit at a very low frequency .
The role of BRCA1 in sporadic breast and ovarian cancers remains elusive .
CONCLUSIONS / SIGNIFICANCE : GK rat islets have increased mRNA expression of markers of early islet endothelial cell activation , possibly triggered by several metabolic factors , and also some defense mechanisms .
The rabbits were sacrificed and the specimens were procured at 3 days , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 and 6 weeks after surgery for histological observation , Chinese ink perfusion and CD34 immunohistochemistry .
Studies on the inactivation of these properties of EGF by specific cleavage of the molecule with CNBr or proteases suggest that an intact loop composed in part by amino acid residues 20 to 31 is essential for at least some functions .
This has led to the therapeutic concept of prophylactic thyroidectomy in affected family members with the goal of removing the thyroid before the manifestation of carcinoma .
However , biochemical screening cannot reliably discriminate the transition from C - cell hyperplasia to invasive microcarcinoma .
There was a significant positive relationship between PAI - 1 levels and N - stage ( p = < 0 . 05 ) , presence of nodal metastases ( p = < 0 . 05 ) , stage grouping ( p = < 0 . 01 ) and extent of disease ( p = < 0 . 05 ) in the total group and the SCC subgroup , but not adenocarcinoma .
Focal adhesion kinase ( pp125FAK or FAK ) is a protein tyrosine kinase which is associated with intracellular signalling cascades which are initiated when the integrin family of cell adhesion molecules engage extracellular matrix molecules .
Mechanisms responsible for hyperinvasiveness and resistance to anti - invasive action of TGFbeta .
The patterns of lymphatic vessels , the expression of VEGFs , and their correlation with neck metastases were assessed .
The results are consistent with the hypothesis that the activity of COX - II is associated with the formation of functional CL via its stimulation of angiogenesis .
The ability of distinct subdomains within VASP to bind adhesion proteins and induce F - actin bundling in vivo suggests that this protein could function in the aggregation and tethering of actin filaments during the formation of endothelial cell - substrate and cell - cell contacts .
However , the maximum decrease approached 100 % in stationary cultures versus approximately 75 % in growing cells .
Both models yield significantly reduced placental weights and an asymmetrically growth - restricted fetus , and display altered maternal hormone concentrations , indicative of an impaired trophoblast capacity .
c - Ski , originally identified as a proto - oncogene product , is an important negative regulator of transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - beta family signaling through interaction with Smad2 , Smad3 , and Smad4 .
Moreover , both the accelerated translation and the previously reported reactive oxygen species - mediated stabilization of HIF - 1alpha protein were essential to the activation of HIF - 1 .
It is concluded that curcumin inhibits the adhesion and invasion of MCF - 7 cells through down - regulating the protein expression of uPA via of NF - kappaB activation .
VPF / VEGF induced dermal microvascular EC expression of mRNAs encoding the alphav and beta3 integrin subunits resulting in increased levels of the alphavbeta3 heterodimer at the cell surface , and VPF / VEGF also induced mRNA encoding osteopontin ( OPN ) , an alphavbeta3 ligand .
We also detected strong activation of AKT in allograft tumors specifically AKT2 as the predominant isoform involved .
Promoter binding assay was performed by chromatin immunoprecipitation ( ChIP ) assay .
Eleven genes were identified whose expression changed significantly in response to carcinogen treatment .
Wnt signaling plays a critical role in regulating stem / progenitor cells in the mammary gland as well as other tissue compartments .
Activation of the myc gene may play a role in transformation by promoting growth of the cells bearing the rearranged chromosomes .
These results indicate that the interaction of tumor cells and endothelial cells in orderly tumor angiomorphogenesis is highly dependent on the action of cell adhesion molecules mediating the adhesion of cancer cells to endothelial cells , inhibition of which remarkably retards tumor growth and angiogenesis .
Double mutants developed oocytes and became sterile females that produced only aberrant embryos and showed elevated risk for invasive ovarian tumors .
Despite considerable efforts in understanding the cellular mechanisms contributing to pancreatic cancer , the prognosis of this malignant disease is still extremely poor .
A marked coronary angiogenesis is known to occur with chronic bradycardia .
The effects of 5T4 expression on morphology and motility are separable since cells transfected with a truncated form of 5T4 cDNA in which the cytoplasmic domain is deleted reveal that the latter is necessary to abrogate actin / cadherin - containing contacts but does not influence the effects on motility .
METHODS : After immunohistochemical staining , light microscope was used for counting macrophages and automated image analysis quantification was used to determine VEGF - C expression , which was reflected by positive index ( PI ) .
Loss of opticin expression by this tissue is associated with and could contribute towards neoplastic transformation .
The organism prevents malignant transformation by assuring accurate DNA repair before cell division , by forcing the death of cells with excessive DNA damage , and by placing limits on the replicative lifespans of most somatic cells .
PURPOSE : We studied retrospectively the interaction between c - erbB2 overexpression and adjuvant tomoxifen in node - negative breast cancer patients enrolled in the Gruppo Universitario Napoletano 1 ( GUN - 1 ) trial .
CONCLUSION : Our results show the effectiveness of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS as an angiogenesis inhibitor in suppressing tumor growth during different stages of tumor progression , validating the application of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS gene therapy in treatment against lung cancer .
Antiprogestin RU - 486 inhibits the induction of VEGF and TSP - 1 by progestins , suggesting that this effect of progestin is mediated by the progesterone receptor ( PR ) .
To assess its role on human vascular lung development , we first examined the expression of IGF - I / II and IGF receptor type I ( IGF - IR ) in human embryonic and fetal lung tissues at 4 - 12 wk of gestation .
c - Ski overexpression promotes tumor growth and angiogenesis through inhibition of transforming growth factor - beta signaling in diffuse - type gastric carcinoma .
Furthermore , the Y705F / S727E but not the Y705F / S727A mutant induced anchorage - independent growth of noncancerous prostate epithelial cells ( RWPE - 1 ) .
Interestingly , both INK4 genes express alternative splicing variants .
A high TP expression at tumor sites is correlated with tumor growth , induction of angiogenesis , and metastasis .
Treatment of wild - type ( wt ) p53 ALL cells ( EU - 3 cell line ) with doxorubicin caused accumulation of p53 , resulting in dramatic down - regulation of survivin , depletion of cells in G ( 2 ) / M , and apoptosis ( increased sub - G ( 1 ) compartment ) .
Capillary diameters increased significantly during pregnancy , especially after 4 weeks , when large flattened sinusoids formed .
Vascular grade was not related to histology , grade , proliferation index ( Ki67 ) , or EGFR or p53 expression .
Histopathological development of gastric tumors induced by N - methyl - N ' - nitro - N - nitrosoguanidine in rats .
In the present study , we found significant binding of nicked beta2GPI to AS4 . 5 ( K ( D ) = 3 . 27 x 10 ( 6 ) M ( - 1 ) ) .
In extracts of growing and stationary Swiss 3T3 cells , the total amount of protein kinase C activity was similar , indicating that growth state does not alter the level of enzyme in the cell .
The specific enhancement of tumor proliferation in vitro .
However , little is known about the function of AQPs in human breast cancer .
This model highlighted the role of VEGF in angiogenesis in both SAT and VAT .
The presence of microvascular proliferation leads to the histological diagnosis of glioblastoma multiforme .
The aim of the present study was to investigate the frequency of the less common p . Val600Lys ( V600K ) mutation in metastatic melanoma from a high incidence region .
CD40 expression on human lung cancer correlates with metastatic spread .
Finally , we discuss future directions for identifying the appropriate patients for therapy , developing reliable markers of efficacy of treatment , and combating resistance to Hedgehog pathway inhibitors .
CONCLUSIONS : P18 is a novel and potent antiangiogenic biotherapeutic agent that has potential to be developed for the treatment of prostate and renal cancer .
One 9 - year - old boy with bilateral microcarcinoma already had a lymph node metastasis .
Blood vessels , capillaries , and endothelial pseudopods were found at greater than 100 microns from the capsule ( subcortex ) .
To investigate how CSC contribute to tumor vascular development , we used an approach comparing tumor xenografts of the C6 glioma cell line containing either a low or a high fraction of CSC .
Mutants of TEL that removed a binding site for the mSin3A corepressor but retained the ETS domain failed to repress stromelysin - 1 .
In order to better understand the coordinated regulation of cell - cell and cell - matrix interactions during malignant transformation , we have studied the expression of syndecan - 1 in malignant mammary tumor cells genetically manipulated for E - cadherin expression .
Conversely , expression of pAd - T34A caused apoptosis in umbilical vein and dermal microvascular endothelial cells and resulted in caspase - 3 activity .
N - myc has proapoptotic functions , yet it acts as an oncogene in neuroblastoma .
Both cis - 9 , trans - 11 and trans - 10 , cis - 12 CLA isomers were effective in inhibiting angiogenesis in vitro in a dose - dependent fashion .
Inhibition by retinoic acid of type IV collagenolysis and invasion through reconstituted basement membrane by metastatic rat mammary adenocarcinoma cells .
The growth factor was found to reside in mast cell granules and was identified as heparin by sequential purification and enzymatic degradation .
In contrast , both HER2 ( 4 / 12 ; 33 % ) and B ( 1 ) R ( 1 / 12 ; 8 . 3 % ) showed a low expression in invasive gallbladder carcinomas .
Ciprofloxacin mediated cell growth inhibition , S / G2 - M cell cycle arrest , and apoptosis in a human transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder cell line .
CONCLUSION : Vascular bundle implantation improved angiogenesis in non - vascularized autogenous bone graft in this study .
While betulin exhibited only moderate anticancer activity in other human cancer cells such as hepatoma SK - HEP - 1 cells , prostate carcinoma PC - 3 , and lung carcinoma NCI - H460 , with IC ( 50 ) values ranging from 20 to 60 microg / mL , it showed minor growth inhibition in human erythroleukemia K562 cells ( IC ( 50 ) > 100 microg / mL ) .
Phosphorylation of BimL by Pak1 prevents it from interacting with and inactivation of Bcl - 2 , an antiapoptotic protein .
Neoplastic progression of human colorectal cancer is associated with overexpression of the stromelysin - 3 and BM - 40 / SPARC genes .
In human endothelial cells , cediranib inhibited VEGF - E - induced phosphorylation of VEGFR - 2 and VEGF - C156S - induced phosphorylation of VEGFR - 3 at concentrations of less than / = 1nmol / L and inhibited activation of downstream signaling molecules .
Tumorigenic activity of rho genes from Aplysia californica .
A similar trend was noted in the SCCVII tumor model .
To grow , invade and metastasize , a treacherous society between cancer and host cells must be formed , and this association provides novel and effective clinical targets for cancer control and prevention .
In this study , the expression of C / EBPbeta was analysed in a series of 90 gastric carcinomas ( GCs ) .
Angiogenin is up - regulated in the nucleus and cytoplasm in human primary breast carcinoma and is associated with markers of hypoxia but not survival .
BACKGROUND : CDC4 / FBXW7 , encoding a ubiquitin ligase , maps to 4q32 and has been implicated as a tumor suppressor gene and therapeutic target in many tumor types .
Disruption of Mitf blocked HGF - dependent increases in endogenous c - Met message and protein levels , indicating that HGF regulates its own receptor levels via Mitf .
Here , we review the role of the Hedgehog pathway in the signature characteristics of cancer cells that determine tumor development , progression , and metastasis .
The present study revealed that androgen increases glucose utilization for de novo lipogenesis in LNCaP cells through the activation of HK2 ( hexokinase 2 ) and activation of the cardiac isoform of PFKFB2 ( 6 - phosphofructo - 2 - kinase / fructose - 2 , 6 - bisphosphatase ) .
Endothelialisation and platelet adhesion to purified endothelial cell - derived perlecan , the major heparan sulfate ( HS ) proteoglycan in basement membranes , were investigated using in vivo and in vitro assays .
Rhizochalin is a two - headed sphingolipid - like compound isolated from the sponge Rhizochalina incrustata .
E mu - bcl - 2 transgene facilitates spontaneous transformation of early pre - B and immunoglobulin - secreting cells but not T cells .
CONCLUSION : The majority ( 81 % ) of breast carcinomas show survivin expression which correlates with bcl - x , another antiapoptotic marker , and both markers tend to correlate with prognosis .
Adaptor protein Crk is required for ephrin - B1 - induced membrane ruffling and focal complex assembly of human aortic endothelial cells .
The role of p53 in glucose metabolism .
The combination diagnosis / treatment device should be useful in optimizing FV treatment and in refining and evaluating the efficacy of DEP in future clinical trials .
An unusual primary adenomatoid tumour arising in the normal liver is described .
This in vitro transformation process involves multiple steps : slow - growing ' pre - neoplastic ' epithelial foci are induced 70 - 100 days after MNU treatment and from such foci rapidly proliferating immortal cell lines were established , some of which became tumorigenic after a further latent period .
LRP - 1 also is implicated in integrin maturation .
Our purpose was to examine human colon cancers for inactivation of two candidate metastasis suppressor genes , nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 , either by mutation or by loss of gene transcription .
Lewis lung carcinoma .
Therefore , in the situation without peritoneal involvement , hyperfibrinogenemia is a useful biomarker to predict the possible metastasis and worse clinical outcome in T2 gastric cancer .
In vitro studies have shown that the mast cell seems to behave as a helper cell for capillary endothelial cells , in some way speeding up their rate of directional migration .
Rofecoxib was used for eight acute haemarthrosis , four target joints , seven cases of synovitis and 12 episodes of pain .
Sensitization to gimatecan - induced apoptosis by tumor necrosis factor - related apoptosis inducing ligand in prostate carcinoma cells .
VEGFR1 - positive haematopoietic bone marrow progenitors initiate the pre - metastatic niche .
AVE8062 : a new combretastatin derivative vascular disrupting agent .
Rofecoxib as adjunctive therapy for haemophilic arthropathy .
Vascular endothelial growth factor - B and vascular endothelial growth factor - C expression in renal cell carcinomas : regulation by the von Hippel - Lindau gene and hypoxia .
Interestingly , FRTL - 5 - RhoA QL cells express less Tg and TTF - 1 than wild - type FRTL - 5 ( FRTL - 5 - vector ) or FRTL - 5 - RhoA N19 , suggesting a loss at the differentiation stage .
These findings strongly support an enhanced role for this pathway in clear cell carcinomas by regulating angiogenesis and / or lymphangiogenesis .
Excluding N - stage , vascular grade was the only independent prognostic factor ( P = 0 . 007 ) .
Many observations in various animal models and humans support that the remodeling of preexisting collateral vessels is the mechanism of collateral artery formation .
Specifically , CLA was found to decrease the ability of mammary stromal cells to form complex anastomosing microcapillary networks in vitro on Engelbreth - Holm - Swarm - derived reconstituted basement membrane .
The authors evaluated the association between MDM2 expression and local failure , distant metastasis ( DM ) , cause - specific mortality , and overall mortality in men treated in Radiation Therapy Oncology Group 8610 with radiotherapy , with or without androgen deprivation .
BACKGROUND : Angiogenesis plays an important role in maintaining adequate oxygen delivery , and nitric oxide ( NO ) is a potential regulator of angiogenesis .
Inhibition of Akt , however , does not fully attenuate p - XSC - mediated downregulation of AR activity , suggesting that inhibition of AR signaling by p - XSC does not occur solely through alterations in the phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase / Akt survival pathway .
Immunohistochemical analysis of nm23 - H1 gene product in node - positive lung cancer and lymph nodes .
After GM - CSF or IL - 3 , a 1 . 2 - to 2 . 4 - fold increase in S - phase cells was observed in nine of 14 GM - CSF and seven of 11 IL - 3 cases .
Activation - induced cytidine deaminase in antibody diversification and chromosome translocation .
In contrast , tunicamycin had little effect on the viability and MTT responses of the cells used .
Pathologic conditions included dystrophia , moderate dysplasia , severe dysplasia , and intraepithelial carcinoma .
Tumor angiogenesis modulates leukocyte - vessel wall interactions in vivo by reducing endothelial adhesion molecule expression .
In oral cancers , cytoplasmic BAG - 1 overexpression is a marker of poor prognosis .
CONCLUSION : In MEN II A patients undergoing prophylactic thyroidectomy , baseline but not stimulated calcitonin levels already correlate with the histologic tumor stage at the stage of clinically occult C - cell hyperplasia or medullary microcarcinoma .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the effect of osteopontin silencing on the invasion and apoptosis of U251 cells .
To test this hypothesis , we investigated the effect of iNOS deficiency ( by L - NIL ) on angiogenesis in a hindlimb ischemia model .
Co - expression of NRP1 and ( VEGFR - 2 ) KDR on the surface of endothelial cells ( EC ) enhances VEGF165 binding to KDR and EC chemotaxis in response to VEGF165 .
We defined the role of c - Myc in cancer cell sensitivity to vinblastine ( VLB ) using human colon cancer cells : LoVo wild - type or transfected with a plasmid containing the human c - myc gene in antisense orientation ( LoVo - mycANS ) .
Cells treated with anti - Fas also exhibited increased tyrosine phosphorylation of the c - met growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase .
Recently , considerable attentions have been devoted to the physiological roles of angiopoietin ( Ang ) - 1 and - 2 as regulatory factors of VEGF .
However , there is no report to show that DATS induced apoptosis in vitro and inhibited CT26 cancer cells in vivo on a murine allograft animal model .
Collectively , our results suggest the proinflammatory and essential role of IL - 17F to develop spontaneous intestinal tumorigenesis in Apc ( Min / + ) mice in the presence of IL - 17A .
Two microsatellite regions found altered in RER + colon cancers were analyzed to establish if these sequences were aberrant in CML .
Prior to this cellular outcome , FOXO3a is functionally activated and mediates a large - scale transcription program in response to this damage involving a significant modulation of 440 genes .
We have modelled multiple stages of malignant transformation of human endothelial cells ( ECs ) by overexpressing the catalytic subunit of human telomerase ( hTERT ) , together with SV40 T antigen ( SV40T ) and oncogenic N - ras .
One mechanism by which alpha - MSH exerts its effects is modulation of AP - 1 and NF - kappa B .
The results of this study suggest that a subclinical cumulative dose of 900 cGy is the threshold for impaired tissue revascularization provided that treatment is delivered immediately after implantation over a 48 - hour interval .
This study investigated the expression of TS and DPD in cervical lymph node metastases and its relationship with primary OSCC , as well as the interaction between these enzymes and Kangai 1 ( KAI1 / CD82 ) which is a metastasis suppressor protein .
Targeting glucose consumption and autophagy in myeloma with the novel nucleoside analogue 8 - aminoadenosine .
We have previously characterized the structure of a gene in A - 172 human glioma cells that encodes a 190 - kDa EGFR mutant with tandem duplication of the tyrosine kinase ( TK ) and calcium - mediated internalization ( CAIN ) domains .
Cells which had been grown in medium containing 1 ng / ml TGF - beta developed colony - forming capacity in soft agar containing epidermal growth factor .
Transformation of primary cells in cultures requires both overcoming growth arrest by stimulating the cell cycle and blocking cell death activities presumably activated by oncogene - mediated hyperproliferation signals .
This chapter describes intravital microscopy as a new imaging technique for detecting NO - dependent angiogenesis in an animal model .
These TGF - beta - resistant cells also exhibited progressively increasing levels of expression of the c - fos and and myc mRNA , and increased resistance to the cytotoxicity of Adriamycin and melphalan .
Downregulation of c - FLIP sensitizes DU145 prostate cancer cells to Fas - mediated apoptosis .
[ Activation of sterol regulatory element binding protein and its involvement in endothelial cell migration ]
Our data show a significant loss of Plexin C1 in metastatic melanoma compared with primary melanoma , suggesting the possibility that the Plexin C1 receptor is a tumor suppressor protein for melanoma .
Most primary human melanomas exhibit loss of expression of the CDKN2A locus in addition to activation of the canonical mitogen - activated protein kinase signaling pathway .
A cohort of unspecified mesodermal cells differentiates into primitive endothelial cells , which migrate to and occupy positions within the stereotypical blueprint of the primitive vasculature .
There is a highly significant correlation between the magnitude of changes in the number of cytochalasin B binding sites and the magnitude of changes in glucose uptake .
They were treated with HBO in 56 + / - 10 consecutive HBO sessions .
Ets - 1 , a transcription factor , is induced in endothelial cells ( ECs ) during angiogenesis .
It leads to enhanced oxygenation of the affected tissues , has an antiseptic effect , reduces edema , and accelerates collagen production and angiogenesis , thus enhancing tissue repair .
On the other hand cancer cells overexpress insulin - like growth factors and their receptors which mimic many activities of insulin .
Using a Matrigel plug - based model , in vivo angiogenesis was restricted with STX243 and STX140 ( 50 and 72 % , respectively , using a 10 mg kg ( - 1 ) oral dose ) , thereby showing the antiangiogenic activity of both compounds .
IL - 1Ra also improved islet vascularization , reduced fibrosis and ameliorated glycemia .
There were no differences in NME mRNA levels between these two cell lines , suggesting that expression of these proteins is regulated at a post - transcriptional level .
2G7 transiently inhibited growth of established MDA - 231 subcutaneous tumors .
METHODS : This review outlines and compares the latest development of these strategies , with emphasis on aflibercept , a novel decoy fusion protein of domain 2 of VEGFR - 1 and domain 3 of VEGFR - 2 with the Fc fragment of IgG1 .
Both groups believe that pulp revascularization and regeneration will be viable treatment modalities in the future .
Intracellular glutathione levels were determined with the use of monochlorobimane , a glutathione - specific probe .
CONCLUSIONS : Our promising results on the potential antitumor effects of hPNAS - 4 on ovarian cancer in vitro and in vivo may be explained , in part , by the induction of apoptosis and inhibition of angiogenesis .
Recent studies on factors involved in tumor vascular development have identified new therapeutic targets for inhibiting tumor neovascularization and thus tumor progression .
Attenuation of NF - kappaB activation by TSC phenolic fraction was associated with significant decrease of intracellular PKC substrate phosphorylation in BPDE treated cells .
In 1986 , Dvorak proposed that by secreting VPF , tumors induce angiogenesis by turning on the wound healing response .
Finally , sorafenib induced autophagy in Huh7 xenograft tumors in nude mice and coadministration with chloroquine significantly suppressed tumor growth compared with sorafenib alone .
Microvascular density and vascular endothelial growth factor immunoreactivity as predictors of regional lymph node metastasis from betel - associated oral squamous cell carcinoma .
However , diameters of intratumoral microvessels were smaller in tumors grown in Ang - 2 - deficient mice , and the vasculature had an altered pattern of pericyte recruitment and maturation .
The aim of this study was to examine immunohistochemical expression of these adhesion molecules , focusing on early gastric carcinomas , and to investigate differences between differentiated and undifferentiated gastric cancer at the early phase of carcinogenesis .
SD rats underwent MI received intramyocardial injection of MSCs from young donor rats ( n = 8 ) , old donor rats ( n = 8 ) , respectively .
Hence , we propose that the vector system , 5xHRE / SV40 / sTie2 , might be a useful tool for down - regulating tumor angiogenesis under hypoxic condition .
Median change in visual acuity both 6 and 12 months after the initial PDT was 0 lines ( n = 18 at 6 months , range - 14 to + 8 lines ; n = 17 at 12 months , range - 18 to + 7 lines ) .
Simultaneously , MMP - 2 expression increases with malignancy .
If generalizable to additional cell lines and human disease , this observation may partially explain the adverse prognosis associated with thrombocytosis in ovarian cancer .
This induction of Ets - 1 could be reproduced in in vivo denudation of rat aortic endothelium by a balloon catheter .
Further tumour inhibition studies showed that STX243 was also active against MCF - 7 paclitaxel - resistant tumours .
We hypothesized that activation of store - operated Ca2 + channels ( SOCs ) is sufficient to promote cell shape change necessary for these processes .
Pak1 associates with the complex of DLC1 and BimL , a proapoptotic BH3 - only protein , and phosphorylates both proteins .
Metronomic 5 - fluorouracil , oxaliplatin and irinotecan in colorectal cancer .
Finally , an immunohistochemistry method ( Hypoxyprobe ) demonstrated that tissue hypoxia was present in the spleen and BM .
However , most current anti - VEGF agents often cause some side effects when given chronically .
However , DMI inhibited FA - induced , GR - mediated transcription when both agents were given together .
We generated monoclonal antibodies that target FGF - BP protein and used them as a tool to evaluate frequency and pattern of FGF - BP expression during the malignant progression of pancreas and colorectal carcinoma in archival tissue samples .
Gastric cancer tissue samples expressed CXCR4 with variable intensities .
This low glucose utilization is in contrast to the high [ 11C ] methionine uptake and the malignancy of these tumors .
We discuss cell lineages , proliferation and interactions of endothelial cells , pericytes and smooth muscle cells , and macrophages .
The marked induction of angiogenesis in glioblastomas suggests that it is a necessary part of malignant progression ; however , the precise molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of brain tumour growth and angiogenesis remain unresolved .
AIM : To determine the expression of HER2 and bradykinin B ( 1 ) receptors ( B ( 1 ) R ) in the two pathogenic models of gallbladder cancer : the metaplasia - dysplasia - carcinoma and the adenoma - carcinoma pathways .
To understand the molecular pathway in Hoxa9 / Meis1 - induced leukemogenesis , retroviral insertional mutagenesis was applied using retrovirus - mediated gene transfer .
METHODS : Corneas of 105 rabbits were infected with viable yeast cells of C . albicans ( 2 . 5 x 10 ( 5 ) ) .
It is therefore highly likely that these alterations are an important component in tumor resistance to therapy .
METHODS : Thirty - eight Wistar albino rats underwent laparotomy to cause intra - abdominal adhesions by mechanical abrasion of the cecum and ethanol application .
The systemic increase in bFGF and MMP - 1 might reflect an increased local stimulation of angiogenesis during distraction osteogenesis .
These findings suggest that the anticarcinogenic effects of ACA might be partly due to perturbation of the polyamine metabolic pathway and triggering of caspase - 3 - like activity , which result in apoptosis .
After 48 h in culture , DR antigen expression was substantially increased , but no significant changes were observed in methylation of the DR alpha locus or in the amount of DR mRNA which was present .
High - risk human papillomaviruses ( HPVs ) are associated with carcinomas of the cervix and other genital tumors .
The archival surgical pathology files of The Johns Hopkins Hospital were searched for cases of brain metastases biopsied between 1990 and 2000 .
A 74 - year - old man presented with persistent metamorphopsias of the right eye 2 weeks after intravitreal injection of bevacizumab to treat choroidal neovascularization due to exudative age - related macular degeneration .
The structural and functional development of the pulmonary system is dependent upon appropriate early vascularization of the embryonic lung .
When the metastatic lung carcinomas were subtyped , TTF - 1 staining was noted in 11 of 11 ( 100 % ) adenocarcinomas , in 6 of 7 ( 86 % ) small - cell carcinomas , in 15 of 19 ( 79 % ) large - cell carcinomas , and in none of 3 ( 0 % ) squamous cell carcinomas .
RESULTS : MCT 1 and 2 were the primary isoforms expressed in human glioblastoma multiforme and glioma - derived cell lines .
Here , we show that deleting the Tip30 gene leads to ductal hyperplasia in mouse mammary glands early in life and extensive mammary hyperplasia with age .
Suppression of lung tumor growth and metastasis in mice by adeno - associated virus - mediated expression of vasostatin .
Angiogenic activity of the aqueous humor was quantified by measuring its effect on the migration of capillary endothelial cells .
Expression of epidermal growth factor receptor , transforming growth factor - alpha and Ki - 67 in relationship to malignant transformation of pleomorphic adenoma .
Glycolysis was affected by pharmacological regulation of c - Myc and HIF - 1alpha .
CONCLUSION : The protein profile of metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines displayed obvious differences compared with non - metastatic liver cancer cell lines .
To determine whether lipofection in other organs could be enhanced by increasing the degree of vascularization , we used a transgenic mouse model with tissue - specific angiogenesis in liver .
RESULTS : Our data showed that : tuberous sclerosis 2 ( TSC2 ) and phosphatase and tensin homolog ( PTEN ) were downregulated in most of the primary tumors , and their low expression was significantly associated with shorter disease - free and overall survival ; somatostatin receptor 2 ( SSTR2 ) was absent or very low in insulinomas compared with nonfunctioning tumors ; and expression of fibroblast growth factor 13 ( FGF13 ) gene was significantly associated with the occurrence of liver metastasis and shorter disease - free survival .
METHODS AND MATERIALS : The prospective trial included 287 patients with subfoveal neovascularization due to AMD which was verified by fluorescein angiography .
Treatment with anti - Fas , however , significantly decreased Fas - c - erbB2 and Fas - c - met association .
Class - 3 semaphorins , semaphorin - 3B ( SEMA3B ) and semaphorin - 3F ( SEMA3F ) , illustrate their effects by forming a complex with neuropilins ( NP - 1 or NP - 2 ) and plexins .
No statistically significant relationships were found between age at onset of MDS or AML and patient gender , G - CSF dose , or duration of G - CSF therapy .
Collagen - poly glycolic acid hybrid matrix with basic fibroblast growth factor accelerated angiogenesis and granulation tissue formation in diabetic mice .
In this study , we determined the effectiveness of vasostatin delivered by recombinant pseudotype adeno - associated virus 2 / 5 ( rAAV2 / 5 - VAS ) as a gene therapy approach for lung cancer treatment .
In this study , we have expressed wild - type and mutant forms of VASP in endothelial cells to determine in what aspects of cytoskeletal behavior this protein participates .
Angiogenesis - dependent diseases result when new blood vessels either grow excessively or insufficiently .
A receptor for angiostatin was identified on the surface of endothelial cells as F ( 1 ) - F ( 0 ) ATP synthase ( Moser et al . , 1999 ) .
The results indicate that tumor tissue of RCC liberates VEGF into the systemic blood flow and that s - VEGF is a possible marker for RCC .
The increase in tumorigenicity and metastatic ability could be explained by the increase in Mr 72 , 000 type IV collagenase activity and angiogenesis attributed to the induction of IL - 8 after irradiation .
Effect of transplanted mesenchymal stem cells from rats of different ages on the improvement of heart function after acute myocardial infarction .
It is concluded that VCSA is a complex of several antigenic determinants , and that some of these differ in different cells transformed by RSV .
A considerable number of mutant p53 proteins probably have an oncogenic activity per se and therefore actively participate in cell transformation .
The underlying mechanisms were systematically investigated in vitro and in vivo .
We used microdialysis to sample IL - 8 in normal human breast tissue in situ in pre - and postmenopausal women , preoperatively in breast cancers of women , and in experimental breast cancer in mice .
A STAT3 - mediated metabolic switch is involved in tumour transformation and STAT3 addiction .
Here we report that CCL16 activates an angiogenic program in vascular endothelial cells by activating CCR1 .
Correlation analysis was performed between blood vessel parameters and the amount of new bone formed during distraction .
However , the mechanism by which Notch oncoproteins ( generically termed here as N ( ic ) ) induce neoplastic transformation is not known .
KISS1 and matrix metalloproteinase - 9 ( MMP - 9 ) may play important roles as metastasis suppressor and metastasis promoter genes , respectively , in a variety of malignancies .
Histological evaluation included amount of fibrous and fat encapsulation , connective tissue , foreign - body reaction , neovascularization , hemorrhage , necrosis , and exudate .
The vascular anomalies seem to precede the development of histologic lesions in some instances .
This hypothesis was tested using the 2G7 IgG2b , which neutralizes TGF - beta 1 , - beta 2 , and - beta 3 , and the MDA - 231 human breast cancer cell line .
We show mutation of S727 to the phosphomimetic residue Glu , and inactivation of Y705 ( Y705F / S727E ) resulted in a remarkable growth advantage in low - serum , enhanced anchorage - independent growth in soft agar , and increased tumorigenicity in nonobese diabetic / severe combined immunodeficient ( NOD / SCID ) mice , possibly by direct activation of downstream proto - oncogenes c - myc , mcl - 1 , and survivin .
Addition of exogenous PAI - 1 , however , prevented HT1080 cell adhesion ( IC50 180 nM ) and promoted cell detachment from vitronectin .
Overexpression of JNK1 or p38 was sufficient to induce HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression .
Mice that received either IR or TEMF had significantly fewer lung metastatic sites and slower tumor growth than did untreated mice .
However , the molecular mechanism of these effects is not understood .
The 3 - D organization of these extracellular components distinguishes the Surgisis mesh from synthetic materials and is associated with constructive tissue remodelling instead of scar tissue .
However , there is little information about their possible roles in non - small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) .
METHODS : Patients diagnosed with chronic CSC , with clinical evidence of activity and treated with Photodynamic Therapy , are included in this report .
There are examples of the aberrant expression of a homeobox gene causing leukemias in humans .
Because many questions will require in vivo studies to be properly addressed , the zebrafish , with its unique accessibility to analysis by combined embryological , molecular , and genetic methods , should prove invaluable in identifying new molecules involved in blood vessel development and integrating pathways that influence embryonic blood vessel formation .
Both B and T lymphocytes diversify their antigen receptors through RAG1 / 2 mediated recombination , but B cells undergo two additional processes - - somatic hypermutation ( SHM ) and class - switch recombination ( CSR ) , both initiated by activation - induced cytidine deaminase ( AID ) .
The baseline visual acuity was similar in the various study groups .
We also showed ICAM - 3 - induced cell migration and invasion in NCI - H460 NSCLC cells ( wild - type p53 and PTEN cell ) through the same signaling pathway .
The expression of JUN , ERBB2 , MYC , cyclin D , PCNA , bFGF , VEGF and Hsp70 proteins revealed a positive correlation to lymph node involvement .
Convenience of administration , tolerability , and patient factors not necessarily age may be considerations in decisions about adjuvant therapy after resection .
Interleukins ( ILs ) may mediate regression or progression of cancer .
We also assessed the effect of C / EBPbeta on COX - 2 expression .
METHODS : Using two - dimensional electrophoresis and liquid chromatography - electrospray ionization - tandem mass spectrometry ( LC - ESI - MS / MS ) , we analyzed differentially displayed proteomics of human hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines Hep3B , MHCC97L , MHCC97H with different metastasic potential .
Media supplemented with and without 10 % Oxygent were compared in all assessments .
PTTG induced S100A4 and galectin - 1 mRNA and protein expression as assessed by Western blot and reverse transcription - PCR .
CXCR4 transcripts and proteins were detectable in all five gastric cancer cell lines .
The use of juice , peel and oil have also been shown to possess anticancer activities , including interference with tumor cell proliferation , cell cycle , invasion and angiogenesis .
Endothelial cell migration and vascular endothelial growth factor expression are the result of loss of breast tissue polarity .
The effects on endothelial cells occur in vitro at low drug concentrations , which do not affect microtubule gross morphology , do not cause microtubule bundling or microtubule loss and do not induce cell cycle arrest , apoptosis , or cell death .
In contrast , KATO III cells expressed membrane CXCR4 .
Thus , genetic loss or inhibition of BRK1 is likely to be protective against tumor development due to proliferation and motility defects in affected cells .
After incubation for 4 days , the medium from the coculture system is collected .
Moreover , HTPB inhibited activity of MMP2 and MMP9 , reduced integrin - beta1 / focal adhesion complex formation and decreased pericellular poly - fibronectin assemblies .
The induction of elevated p53 levels was determined not to be due to virus - receptor interactions or HCMV late events .
Controlled neo - endothelialisation is critical to the patency of small diameter vascular grafts .
In contrast to CYR61 and CTGF , no significant association was found between expression of either WISP - 1 or NOV versus any of the pathological features .
These results indicated that Crk plays a critical role in Rac1 - induced membrane ruffling and Rap1 - mediated nascent focal complex stabilization contributing to ephrin - B1 - induced human aortic endothelial cells migration .
Neuroblastoma is derived from SNS precursors .
AID deaminates cytidines in DNA resulting in U : G mismatches that are processed into point mutations in SHM or double - strand breaks in CSR .
To understand the mechanisms behind these processes , we have examined the effect of FVIIa on apoptosis .
p53 does so through the induction of genes leading to growth arrest or apoptosis .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : In the present study , we investigated the effects of 2ME2 alone and in combination with paclitaxel , an active agent in recurrent or advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
Members of the Runx and MYC families have been implicated as collaborating oncogenes .
One such factor , vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , is considered to exert a potent angiogenic activity , as indicated by immunohistochemical and molecular evidence .
Combination therapy was more effective , and completely eliminated tumor in 4 of 12 IFN - GM - CSF and 8 of 11 IFN - IL - 2 animals .
The NBD peptide suppressed metastasis and tongue tumor growth in GSAS / N5 - inoculated mice , and was accompanied by the downregulation of the NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules in engrafted tongue tumors .
The biological properties of CCN proteins include stimulation of cell proliferation , migration , and adhesion , as well as angiogenesis and tumorigenesis .
The heart functions ( left ventricle ejection fraction ( LVEF ) , left ventricle fractional shortening ( LVFS ) ) were improved more significantly in the old donor - derived MSCs group than in the control group and the heart function in the young donor - derived MSCs group further improved ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
RESULTS : In comparison with controls , intratumoral injection of Ad - mEndostatin significantly inhibited the tumor growth and metastasis , and prolonged the survival rate of mice ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
c - Met expression is regulated by Mitf in the melanocyte lineage .
Evaluations were graded on a zero to four scale .
Traditional coronary revascularization therapies such as coronary angioplasty or bypass graft surgery , act by restoring blood flow through the preexisting coronary vessels .
It is interesting that certain components of neutrophil cytotoxic arsenal ( ROS , cytokines , specific enzymes ) participate both in antitumoral defenses of an organism and protumoral activity .
The mice that received Hoxa9 / Meis1 - transduced bone marrow cells developed acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) , and Trib1 , Evi1 , Ahi1 , Raralpha , Pitpnb , and AK039950 were identified as candidate cooperative genes located near common retroviral integration sites .
These data provide a morphologic ( angiogenesis and increased endothelial area ) and molecular ( enhanced NOS activity and endothelial NOS upregulation ) basis for explaining the permeability changes observed in long - term PD .
Orthogonal polarization spectral imaging showed no difference in functional capillary density between the scaffolds cultured on chorioallantoic membranes .
The human T - cell leukemia viruses HTLV - I and HTLV - II are unique among the transforming retroviruses of vertebrates in their ability to transform human T cells in vitro and in their close association with human malignancies ( T - cell lymphomas and leukemia ) .
Metastasis and tumor angiogenesis are invasive phenomena and share many common properties at the physiological level and some similarities at the molecular level .
Use of iodine - 123 - alpha - methyl tyrosine ( 123I - IMT ) allows investigation of the amino acid transport rate in gliomas .
For investigation of cell suspensions , four pleural fluids were incubated with anticalretinin antiserum .
In the aqueous fluid , VEGF levels were increased in diabetics ( mean values : 501 vs . 367 pg / ml ; p = 0 . 05 ) , compared to controls .
METHODS : The expression of five facilitative glucose transporters , Glut - 1 ( erythrocyte type ) , Glut - 2 ( liver type ) , Glut - 3 ( brain type ) , Glut - 4 ( muscle / fat type ) , and Glut - 5 ( small intestine type ) , was studied by immunohistochemistry of paraffin sections from 12 primary human breast cancers and 8 lymph node metastases from 2 patients .
We have used retroviral - mediated gene delivery to effect sustained autocrine expression of TIMP - 3 in murine neuroblastoma and melanoma tumor cells in order to further examine the ability of TIMPs to inhibit angiogenesis in vivo .
In breast cancer , biomarkers that specifically correlate with the invasive phenotypes have not been clearly identified .
We also report that SPARC arrests monomeric collagen - supported smooth muscle cell proliferation in the late G1 - phase of the cell cycle in the absence of an effect on cell shape or on levels of cyclin - dependent kinase inhibitors .
Our study indicates that 1 ) Ca2 + entry in pulmonary endothelial cells through SOCs produces cell shape change that is dependent on site - specific rearrangement of the microfilamentous cytoskeleton and 2 ) Trp1 may be a component of pulmonary endothelial SOCs .
RESULTS : Endometrial glands in the proliferative and early secretory phase expressed both DCC and netrin - 1 , but glands in the late - secretory phase tended to silence DCC expression .
Proprotein convertases are serine endoproteases implicated in the proteolytic processing of a large variety of regulatory proteins .
RUNX1 DNA - binding mutations and RUNX1 - PRDM16 cryptic fusions in BCR - ABL + leukemias are frequently associated with secondary trisomy 21 and may contribute to clonal evolution and imatinib resistance .
UFT , an anticancer agent that is composed of tegafur ( FT ) and uracil at a molar ratio of 1 : 4 , is widely used in clinical practice in Japan to treat cancer patients requiring a long - term chemotherapy , and it is associated with few side effects , if any .
The mechanism proposed is a stimulation of angiogenesis for distant dormant micrometastases .
Immunohistochemical analysis revealed Fas - positive cells and apoptotic cells preferentially within the proximal colon region , clearly at the site of bovine lactoferrin - mediated tumor inhibition .
We show that enhanced glycolysis is dependent on HIF - 1alpha up - regulation , while reduced mitochondrial activity is HIF - 1alpha - independent and likely caused by STAT3 - mediated down - regulation of mitochondrial proteins .
Furthermore , reduction of Pbx1 levels through RNAi - mediated knockdown significantly inhibited Evi - 1 - induced transformation .
Using tissue - specific ablation in mice , we deleted the BR - SMADs from somatic cells of ovaries and testes .
In addition , cross - talk between the IGF system and other growth factors and integrin receptors has been demonstrated .
Hypoxia rapidly induced both JNK1 and p38 activity in these cells .
However , high expression of WT1 correlates with poor prognosis in acute leukemia .
Upon investigation , intrachromosomal gene amplification of Met , a receptor tyrosine kinase implicated in melanoma progression , was identified in Cdkn2a - deficient tumors .
Potentiation of camptothecin - induced apoptosis by TRAIL appears dependent on cooperation between extrinsic and intrinsic pathways , as documented by loss of the sensitization to apoptosis following reduction of caspase 8 after small interfering RNA transfection .
Differential expression and mutation of NME genes in autologous cultured human melanoma cells with different metastatic potentials .
Different antiangiogenic therapeutics have been developed to improve tumor control through vascular - targeting agents ( VTA ) .
In this study , we show that Tsg101 is highly expressed in a subset of invasive human breast cancers .
Grossly , the tumour showed a haemorrhagic cut surface with numerous microcystic structures .
Recombinant EBV containing LMP1 with TES2 deleted induces a limited proliferation of B cells .
Expanded polytetrafluoroethylene ( PTFE ) sheets were implanted adjacent to both superficial epigastric vascular pedicles of 63 rats distributed into 7 groups ( n = 7 ) that differed with respect to dose and timing of irradiation .
The short - term response of Swiss 3T3 cells to an activator of protein kinase C also appeared to be independent of growth state , since the 50 % effective dose for PDBu inhibition of EGF binding to its receptor was approximately 7 nM for both growth conditions .
Ha - ras cells also show less binding of phorbol ester than control cells , suggesting that elevation of DG causes partial down - regulation in addition to activation of protein kinase C .
Inhibition of either PARP or caspase activity blocked magnolol - induced apoptosis , supporting the involvement of the caspases and PARP .
In the present study a DNA probe derived from cellular DNA sequences adjacent to the previously characterized HBV insert was used to analyze a set of 19 matched normal liver and HBV - positive hepatoma samples obtained from the same region of China , near Shanghai .
We also analysed the association of patients ' prognosis with clinical parameters and the histological classification of the carcinomatous component .
Expression of PTEN mRNA and protein in normal gastric mucosa and gastric cancer was evaluated by RT - PCR and SABC immunohistochemistry , respectively .
Exposure of wild - type primary mouse cerebral endothelial cells to the CD47 ligand thrombospondin 1 ( TSP - 1 ) induced an increasing amount of cell death , whereas cytotoxicity was significantly decreased in cerebral endothelial cells derived from CD47 knockout mice .
Acetylation of histone and non - histone proteins , induction of apoptotic - related proteins and de - phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase were confirmed in treated mice .
These findings suggest that PA through protease cascade plays a role in tumor invasion and metastasis .
A series of our studies revealed that for activation of the invasion pathway of EGFR , it is prerequisite that Arf6 and AMAP1 both are highly overexpressed , and that EGFR is activated by ligands .
Dominant negative interference of transcription factor AP - 2 causes inhibition of ErbB - 3 expression and suppresses malignant cell growth .
These data support a possible role for tumor cell TGF - beta in the progression of mammary carcinomas by suppressing host immune surveillance .
Vessel density ( MVD - microvessel density ) , endothelial cell proliferation fraction ( ECP % ) and tumour cell proliferation fraction ( TCP % ) were assessed .
This study investigates the systemic biochemical regulation of fracture healing in distraction osteogenesis compared with rigid osteotomy in a prospective in vivo study in humans .
By live videomicroscopy , we confirmed that the vessels were largely nonfunctional in the absence of alpha2beta1 integrin .
In vitro , insulin increased VEGF mRNA levels in human RPE cells and enhanced VEGF promoter activity without affecting transcript stability .
Another cell adhesion protein , beta 1 - integrin was not affected by E - cadherin expression .
Arteriogenesis : the development and growth of collateral arteries .
Here we provide an overview of the current understanding of the Warburg effect upon tumor cell growth and survival , and discussion on the potential metabolic targets for cancer therapy .
Consistent with the decrease in lymph node metastasis , tumor lymphangiogenesis and expression of vascular endothelial growth factor C ( VEGF - C ) was significantly decreased in artemisinin - treated mice , as compared to control mice .
Role of stromal myofibroblasts in invasive breast cancer : stromal expression of alpha - smooth muscle actin correlates with worse clinical outcome .
When injected in human breast cancer xenografts , pAd - T34A inhibited growth of established tumors and triggered tumor cell apoptosis in vivo .
An important role of proprotein convertases in tumorigenic processes has been suggested by various studies .
In DU - 145 cells apoptosis was increased by lower TRAIL concentrations and was earlier than in PC - 3 cells , as shown using Annexin V - binding assay .
Mild mutations in BRCA2 ( FANCD1 ) cause Fanconi anemia ( FA ) when homozygous , while severe mutations cause common cancers including breast , ovarian , and prostate cancers when heterozygous .
We attempted to correlate the expression of human leukocyte antigen DR ( HLA - DR ) and tumor infiltration by S - 100 - protein - positive dendritic cells with clinicopathologic features in 165 patients with gastric cancer .
Thus , our results from differential proteome analysis presented here report for the first time a role for SET in Galpha ( 12 ) - mediated signaling pathways and a role for Galpha ( 12 ) in the regulation of the leukemia - associated SET - protein expression .
It was correlated with the laboratory ( Hb , WBC and platelet counts , and the percentage of blasts ) and clinical parameters ( organomegaly , duration of CP , AP , and BC ) of disease progression .
The neuroblastoma cells have a significant decrease in Fas ligand .
Following intravenous administration of cationic lipid - DNA complexes ( lipoplexes ) into mice , transfection ( lipofection ) occurs predominantly in the lungs .
In addition , the FAS - 670AG or GG genotype showed an increased incidence of node metastasis , but these findings were not statistically significant ( OR = 3 . 67 , 95 % CI = 0 . 96 - 14 . 00 , P = 0 . 059 ) .
We conducted a retrospective medical record review of patients treated with rofecoxib for acute haemarthrosis , chronic synovitis , target joint or pain .
Together these findings establish Wnt signaling as a metastasis regulator in melanoma .
In comparison , by day 24 , the majority of groups also treated with prednisolone displayed significantly less corneal clouding and neovascularization .
Actin signaling controls serum response factor ( SRF ) activity via SRF interaction with the myocardin - related transcriptional activator ( MRTF ) - A and tethering to a single CArG box sequence within the CCN1 promoter .
Certain carcinostatic agents induce the expression of E - selectin on endothelial cells and enhance the expression of carbohydrate ligands on cancer cells .
This down - regulation is accompanied by a rapid cleavage of Tie1 and binding of the cleaved Tie1 45 kDa endodomain to Tie2 .
In contrast , there was no association between the expression of AP - 2alpha or AP - 2beta and the level of ErbB - 3 , or between AP - 2alpha and AP - 2gamma double positivity and ErbB - 3 expression .
CONCLUSION : TEMF therapy provided a safe means for retarding tumor vascularization , growth and metastasis .
Inhibition of the UV - induced activation of Erbb2 also resulted in milder epidermal hyperplasia , S - phase accumulation , and decreased levels of the cell cycle regulator Cdc25a , suggesting altered cell cycle regulation on inhibition of Erbb2 .
The clinical relevance of Brk1 is emphasized by correlative data showing that Von Hippel - Lindau ( VHL ) patients that also lose the BRK1 gene are protected against the development of tumors .
Moreover , regional administration of L - NAME , in combination with TNF and melphalan , was studied in an isolated limb perfusion ( ILP ) model using BN175 soft - tissue sarcomas .
In this regard , inhibitors of these pathways have been shown to be effective antitumoral agents .
Role of thrombogenic factors in the development of atherosclerosis .
Expression of Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 in primary tumors and lymph node metastases in oral squamous cell carcinoma .
Long - term peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) is limited by morphological changes of the peritoneal membrane .
Metastatic spread of malignant tumor appears to correlate with activation of the fibrolytic system .
In these settings TNF demonstrates potent and selective activity on the tumor vascular bed , which strongly improves tumor response .
In conclusion , allogeneic FM - MSC injection did not elicit a lymphocyte proliferative response and provided significant improvement in a rat model of hind limb ischemia , comparable to the response to BM - MSC .
Induction of TSP - 1 mRNA by TGF - beta was attenuated by c - Ski in vitro , and expression of TSP - 1 mRNA was decreased in tumors expressing c - Ski in vivo .
The rate of oxygen utilization was not altered by the addition of 0 . 5 mM glutamine ; 5 mM glucose induced an inhibition of respiration .
PURPOSE : The matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) are a family of proteolytic enzymes involved in tumor invasion ; several individual members of which have been implicated in tumor prognosis .
The elimination half - life when administered i . m . was found to be 3 . 0 h in the serum and 4 . 3 h in the cellular fraction of the blood .
Knowledge of 14 - 3 - 3zeta and beta - catenin expression and clinical significance in the same tumor tissues is limited .
Thus , it is highly unlikely that the p53 molecule per se carries intrinsic or even associated kinase activities .
These results suggest that point mutations in p53 and ras are not associated with pituitary tumorigenesis , however , point mutations of the H - ras gene may be important in the formation and or growth of pituitary metastases .
PTHrP drives breast tumor initiation , progression , and metastasis in mice and is a potential therapy target .
Instead , regulation occurred at the mRNA level .
TTF - 1 immunohistochemistry could focus the search for the primary tumor for patients presenting with brain metastasis as the initial manifestation .
Therefore , it is possible that loss of final sigma expression contributes to malignant transformation by impairing the G ( 2 ) cell cycle checkpoint function , thus allowing an accumulation of genetic defects .
Together these results indicate that expression of junB above a threshold level is essential for v - fos - induced transformation of Rat - 1 fibroblasts .
Pathological animal models in the experimental evaluation of tumour microvasculature with magnetic resonance imaging .
CCL16 activates an angiogenic program in vascular endothelial cells .
The identification of Erk1 , 2 as triggered signaling in the lesions may be valuable for the development of effective therapy for this disease .
Conversely , inducible over - expression of RASSF1C in breast cancer cells ( MDA - MB231 and T47D ) resulted in a small increase in cell proliferation .
In this study , we used two inflammatory agents , IL - 1beta and phorbol myristic acetate , to activate PKC isozymes and specific inhibitors of PKCalpha ( Go6976 ) and PKCbeta ( hispidin ) to distinguish how each of these isoform ( s ) controls angiogenesis , wound healing , and permeability .
This identifies a novel function of Evi - 1 as a member of corepressor complexes and suggests that aberrant recruitment of corepressors is one of the mechanisms involved in Evi - 1 - induced leukemogenesis .
No significant correlation could be detected with regard to TNM - stage , grading or survival .
When genetic ablation of 1 or 2 alleles of fur and overexpression of the PLAG1 transgene were simultaneously achieved , a significant delay in tumorigenesis was observed .
Furthermore melanoma cells transfected with a uPA variant , which had an impaired interaction with PAI - 1 , were not invasive and had impaired binding to vitronectin .
In this review , the mechanisms and factors involved in tumor blood vessel formation are discussed .
PURPOSE : We investigated the global gene expression in a large panel of pancreatic endocrine tumors ( PETs ) aimed at identifying new potential targets for therapy and biomarkers to predict patient outcome .
GM - CSF and IL - 2 vaccine therapy and pretreatment with gammaIFN represent effective strategies in reducing hepatic tumor .
BACKGROUND : SPARC ( secreted protein , acidic and rich in cysteine ) is closely related with the progress , invasion and metastasis of malignant tumor and angiogenesis .
RESULTS : ITCs were observed in peripheral blood and bone marrow even in early stages of gastric cancer .
In the present study , the vascular grade was assessed in 107 ( T1 , 2 - N0 , 1 ) operable non - small cell lung carcinomas , using the JC70 monoclonal antibody to CD31 .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) - induced receptor phosphorylation is the crucial step for initiating downstream signaling pathways that lead to angiogenesis or related pathophysiological outcomes .
Insulin concentrations were significantly higher ( P less than 0 . 001 ) at baseline and at the 5 - , 45 - , 60 - , and 90 - minute time periods of the glucose tolerance test in dogs with lymphoma .
AMI control group received equal volume physiological saline .
Adult rat urothelial cells were transformed in vitro following treatment with a single dose of N - methyl - N - nitrosourea ( MNU ) or MNU treatment followed by promotion with sodium saccharin .
A reduction and not an increase in tumor glucose availability could be a more appropriate strategy for the induction of energy failure in tumors .
Transforming growth factor - beta1 enhances tumour vascularization and microvessel maturation .
Furthermore , a significant relationship between the expression of EphA2 and E - cadherin was observed .
Protein expression was statistically compared to the degree of immune cell infiltration and microvessel density in epithelial - derived ovarian tumors and a significant correlation was observed for both .
Autocrine angiogenic vascular prosthesis with bone marrow transplantation .
Thus , angiogenesis is a physiologic event in normal postnatal murine skin , apparently is dictated by the hair follicle , and appears to be required for normal anagen development .
Autopsy studies have revealed that intimal thickening represents the first stage of atherosclerosis and that lipid - rich plaque arises from such lesions .
High - grade clear cell renal cell carcinoma has a higher angiogenic activity than low - grade renal cell carcinoma based on histomorphological quantification and qRT - PCR mRNA expression profile .
Killing tumor cells through their surface beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin or major histocompatibility complex class I molecules .
The c - myc oncogene encodes for a transcriptional factor involved in many cellular processes such as proliferation , differentiation and apoptosis .
Combined mutations of p27 ( - / - ) and Men1 ( + / - ) , in contrast , did not exhibit noticeable synergistic stimulation of Rb kinase activity , cell proliferation , and tumor growth .
Previously , we reported that in vitro M - CSF induces the expression of biologically - active VEGF from human monocytes .
Accordingly , the therapeutic potential of curcumin for breast cancer deserves further study .
Gene therapy for gliomas : p53 and E2F - 1 proteins and the target of apoptosis .
MEK5 / ERK5 signaling modulates endothelial cell migration and focal contact turnover .
Thus , c - myc induction is a resistance factor and our findings suggest that tumors carrying low levels of c - Myc protein could be more responsive to vinca alkaloids treatment .
Additionally , cediranib blocked VEGF - C156S - induced and VEGF - E - induced proliferation , survival , and migration of lymphatic and blood vascular endothelial cells .
Onconase similarly inhibited proliferation in all three cell lines ( IC ( 50 ) = 0 . 3 - 1 . 0 microM ) while ( - 4 ) rhEDN was more effective on immortalized HUVEC cell lines ( IC ( 50 ) = 0 . 02 - 0 . 06 microM ) than on primary HUVECs ( IC ( 50 ) > 0 . 1 microM ) .
Systematic proteomic studying of the mechanism of hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) metastasis remains challenging .
Activation of vascular endothelial growth factor through reactive oxygen species mediates 20 - hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid - induced endothelial cell proliferation .
Activation of protein kinase C ( PKC ) induces phenotypic changes in the morphology of microvascular endothelial cells that affect major functions of the microvasculature .
The data show that different protein expression patterns exist between primary squamous cell lung carcinomas with and without lymph node involvement and within carcinomas with lymph node involvement .
Treatment with 317615 x 2HCl alone increased the lifespan of animals bearing intraperitoneal SKOV - 3 xenografts by 1 . 9 fold compared with untreated control animals .
Tumor microenvironment , a dangerous society leading to cancer metastasis .
The present study evaluated the effect of cumene hydroperoxide ( Cum - OOH ) on the induction of activator protein - 1 ( AP - 1 ) , which is linked to the expression of genes regulating cell proliferation , growth and transformation .
Silencing of ADAM - 9 in melanoma cells significantly reduced cell adhesion to fibroblasts .
In contrast , abnormal staining was frequently found even in intramucosal carcinoma of undifferentiated - type tumours , suggesting an apparent difference in the onset of E - cadherin - catenin complex abnormality between the two cancer types .
Furthermore , transfection of E - cadherin cDNA into invasive NM - f - ras - TD cells resulted in the upregulation of syndecan - 1 expression in association with decreased invasiveness .
Clinically , elderly patients are more vulnerable to acute myocardial infarction ( AMI ) .
Since hexokinase is the first rate limiting enzyme in the glycolytic pathway , elevated levels of Type II like hexokinase in tumors are of great significance in this context .
An understanding of the complex interactions involved in these pathways might allow the development of novel therapeutic strategies for rheumatoid arthritis .
Surgery is the primary treatment for stage I disease .
The vascular insulin - like growth factor ( IGF ) - 1 system includes the IGFs , the IGF - 1 receptor ( IGF - 1R ) , and multiple binding proteins .
All of the DR alpha DNA sequences detected by a cloned DR alpha cDNA probe are contained in a BglII fragment which varies slightly in size ( 4 . 0 to 4 . 8 kilobases ) from one individual to another .
The cell autonomous function of p53 in melanocytes is not well described , however , the balance of the evidence suggests that p53 is an effective tumor suppressor and the myriad of mechanisms by which the p53 pathway may be dysregulated in tumors attests to it importance as a tumor suppressor .
Among the sequence variations , there was a change from G to T at nucleotide position 169 , 426 , resulting in the loss of an XhoI site in exon 1 of the LMP gene .
Active hair growth ( anagen ) is associated with angiogenesis .
We examined transformation - induced alterations in proliferative and invasive abilities , responses to the invasion and proliferation - regulating growth factor TGFbeta and changes in gene expression for invasion - associated enzymes or enzyme inhibitors .
Genomic instability is one mechanism proposed to play a role in the disease progression of chronic myeloid leukemia ( CML ) .
In addition , these clones also exhibit aggressive tumorigenic phenotypes in vivo with short latency in tumor formation in both immunodeficient and syngeneic mice .
( 1999 , Proc . Natl . Acad . Sci . USA 2645 - 2650 ) to inhibit endothelial cell proliferation and angiogenesis , both in vivo and in vitro , and to inhibit metastasis of a wide variety of tumors in vivo .
The objective of this article is to explain radiologic patterns of benign and malignant breast lesions ( masses , microcalcifications ) based on histological correlations .
Based on ChIP analysis , the transcriptional regulation of BMP - 2 gene by NF - kappaB may be partially attributed to binding to kappab site on the BMP - 2 promoter .
Activation of MybER both prevented the growth arrest induced by interleukin - 6 ( IL - 6 ) and rapidly restored c - myc expression in nearly terminal differentiated cells that had been exposed to IL - 6 for 3 days .
Thus , 5T4 molecules can deliver signals through both the extracellular and intracellular domains , and the resultant effects are consistent with a role for 5T4 molecules in invasion processes .
METHODS : In this study , we screened the expression profile of AQP0 - 12 in breast cancer tissues and corresponding normal tissues by RT - PCR , Western blotting and immunohistochemistry .
BALB - / MK - 2 mouse epidermal keratinocytes required epidermal growth factor for proliferation and terminally differentiated in response to high Ca2 + concentration .
Platelet - derived endothelial cell growth - factor ( PD - ECGF ) is similar to the pyrimidine enzyme thymidine phosphorylase ( TP ) .
The principal types of tumors were plasmacytomas secreting immunoglobulin and novel lymphomas that expressed markers such as Sca - 1 , CD4 , Thy - 1 , CD34 and CD45 ( B220 ) , consistent with an origin very early in B - lymphoid development .
PCNSLs with HRK methylation also showed methylation of multiple genes , such as p14ARF , p16INK4a , RB1 , p27Kip1 and O6 - MGMT .
The tissue response to this biologic mesh is discussed in the context of recent reports on clinical hernia repair .
Strikingly , Tip30 deletion promotes proliferation of primary MECs and results in rapid immortalization of MECs in vitro relative to wild - type cells .
RESULTS : Most tumors less than 35 mm3 were white but tumors greater than 35 mm3 were pink and had a vascularized capsule .
METHODS : We quantified expression of MCT isoforms in human glioblastoma multiforme and glioma - derived cells lines by Western blot analysis .
Inhibition of angiogenesis has been shown to be an effective strategy in cancer therapy in mice .
Our findings support a novel role for pyruvate in metabolic signaling and suggest a mechanism by which high rates of aerobic glycolysis can promote the malignant transformation and survival of cancer cells .
P18 increased the production of CD95 ligand and reduced the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 by the endothelial cells in vivo .
It has been recognized as the cause of adult T - cell leukemia ( ATL ) .
Using a human recombinant antibody ( scFv ) specific for the angiogenesis marker domain B of fibronectin , interleukin 2 , and an scFv able to neutralize tumor necrosis factor - alpha , we expressed various biologically active uteroglobin fusion proteins .
BACKGROUND : Compound targeting histone deacetylase ( HDAC ) represents a new era in molecular cancer therapeutics .
DNA fragmentation occurred in response to anti - Fas treatment .
Safety of verteporfin for treatment of subfoveal choroidal neovascular membranes associated with age - related macular degeneration .
In this study we examined the role of p24 proteins in insulin transport .
This review summarizes the current state of the art concerning the involvement of aberrant Pten function in the development of different biologic features of malignant gliomas , such as loss of cell - cycle control and uncontrolled cell proliferation , escape from apoptosis , brain invasion , and aberrant neoangiogenesis .
Heat shock protein 27 ( HSP27 ) is one of the small heat shock proteins .
Thalidomide had no direct effect on endothelial cells .
The hypothesis that modifications of activity and / or expression of nitric oxide synthase ( NOS ) isozymes might play a role in these modifications , via enhanced local production of nitric oxide , was tested in this study .
The data support the hypothesis that increased epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) and transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - alpha expression is associated with early events in malignant transformation of pleomorphic adenoma ( PA ) .
In addition to giving a historical perspective on HTLV - 1 and other retrovirus research , this paper discusses the origin of HTLV - 1 ; the modes of transmission and global epidemiology of HTLV - 1 infection ; the genome of HTLV - 1 and the mechanism of HTLV - 1 - induced leukemogenesis ; the role of HTLV - 1 in other diseases , and recent breakthroughs in ATL therapy .
Further deletions reveal a sequence within the carboxy - terminal domain that is responsible for in vivo bundle formation .
Insufficient angiogenesis occurs in diseases such as coronary artery disease , stroke and chronic wounds .
Regardless how death is inflicted , every cancer cell must die , be it fast or slow .
However , the high mortality observed in the folate - deficient group precludes a definitive conclusion concerning the effect of folate deficiency on UC - associated colorectal carcinogenesis in this model .
Gene enhancement with IGF - 1 improved donor cell proliferation , survival , and engraftment after cell transplantation , perhaps mediated by enhanced angiogenesis and reduced apoptosis .
Indeed , these agents are known to activate different pathways of apoptosis .
In addition , PTEN promoter methylation appeared more frequently in multiple CCMs , including familial cases ( 46 . 7 % ) , than that in single - lesioned CCMs ( 11 . 8 % ; P < 0 . 05 ) .
RESULTS : The average fibrinogen levels in patients with pancreatic carcinoma , ( 476 . 21 + / - 142 . 05 ) mg / dl , were significantly higher than in patients with cholangiolithiasis , ( 403 . 28 + / - 126 . 41 ) mg / dl ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Although Evi - 1 is thought to promote growth or block differentiation in some cell types , its biological functions have not been elucidated .
Our results show CWR22Rv - 1 and PC3 tumor cell lines to be more metastatic than LAPC - 4 , which in turn disseminates more readily than LAPC - 9 .
Younger patients and eyes with higher refractive error appear more likely to benefit from PDT with verteporfin .
This effect was observed whether the cells had been treated with all - trans - RA in serum - free medium or in medium supplemented with heat - inactivated or acid - treated fetal bovine serum .
With the appropriate agent , targeting endosialin may interfere with blood vessel growth during tumor development .
The role of each prognostic variable and their independent effect were studied using the Cox model .
Statistically significant differences were observed regarding angiogenesis between the control group and groups 3 and 4 .
The authors found that patients in the high PE group survived for a significantly shorter time than those patients in the low PE group .
To analyze the structure - function relationship for the v - fos protein , we constructed in - frame insertion and deletion mutants of the v - fos gene carried by FBJ - MuSV , and expressed them in chicken primary cells using retrovirus vectors .
The results demonstrated that levels of the c - jun mRNA and protein were unchanged in the revertants when compared to the transformed parental cells , and ectopic overexpression of c - jun failed to retransform the revertants .
Newly formed bone densities were also found to be higher in these 2 groups .
This study was designed to investigate the effect of EBV - LMP1 on related factors of metastasis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line CNE1 .
WT1 represses transcription of several growth factors and growth factor receptors .
The genetic basis of increased glycolytic activity observed in cancer cells is likely to be the result of complex interactions of multiple regulatory pathways .
Thirty uterine cervix specimens sampled following conization or total hysterectomy were studied using histology , histoenzymology ( vessel phosphatase alkaline activity ) , and immunohistochemistry ( demonstration of laminin and type IV collagen in epithelium and vessel basement membranes ) .
Our previous studies mapped PEDF antiangiogenic and prosurvival activities to distinct epitopes .
Patient charts were reviewed for visual acuity of the treated eye before PDT and at 6 - and 12 - month follow - up examinations .
There was negative correction between KISS1 and MMP - 9 protein expression ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
Then , we demonstrated a mitochondrial membrane potential disruption followed by cytochrome c release that indicates the involvement of mitochondria in this apoptotic signaling pathway .
RAF265 inhibited 2 - deoxy - 2 - [ ( 18 ) F ] fluoro - d - glucose ( FDG ) accumulation in cell culture at 28 hours in a dose - dependent manner .
Perlecan was also found to stimulate endothelial cell proliferation in vitro over a period of 6 days in the presence of plasma proteins and fibroblastic growth factor 2 ( FGF - 2 ) , however in the absence of FGF - 2 endothelial cell growth could not be maintained during this period .
This Review will discuss the rationale for using antiangiogenic compounds and will focus on large molecules , such as antibodies , that target the VEGF system .
CCL16 induces dose - dependent random and directional migration of endothelial cells isolated from large vessels and liver capillaries without inducing their proliferation .
Solid tumors express a range of factors required to sustain their growth and promote their dissemination .
Several such agents are currently in clinical trials , and many others are under development .
Scanning electron microscopy of vascular casts in experimental ocular vasoproliferation .
The remaining SVLT mutants presented different degrees of ability to inhibit differentiation ( as shown by the expression of tissue - specific markers in transformants ) .
By means of intravital microscopy , tumor necrosis factor alpha - stimulated leukocyte - vessel wall interactions were studied in ear skin microvessels of nude mice bearing small human LS174T colon carcinomas and in C57Bl / 6 mice bearing murine B16F10 melanomas .
Cell death induced by survivin targeting exhibited the hallmarks of mitochondrial - dependent apoptosis with release of cytochrome c and loss of mitochondrial transmembrane potential and was suppressed in Apaf - 1 or caspase - 9 knockout mouse embryonic fibroblasts .
The incidence of high - grade lesions in the folate - deficient group was also 49 % lower than that in the control group ( 33 . 3 % versus 65 . 1 % , P = 0 . 007 ) .
The VEGF system represents a key mediator of tumor - initiated angiogenesis and the first target of antiangiogenesis agents introduced in clinical practice .
In the present study , we applied the alginate implant angiogenesis model in mice with normal ANG II levels , elevated ANG II levels by transgenic overexpression of angiotensinogen ( AOGEN ) , or in AT2 receptor - deficient mice .
Expression of two type II - like tumor hexokinase RNA transcripts in cancer cell lines .
Microsatellite regions in the type II transforming growth factor - beta receptor ( TGF - beta RII ) gene appear to be targets for mutation in some cancers displaying microsatellite instability ( replication error phenotype , RER + ) .
The mechanisms underlying the initial insulin - induced deterioration of retinal status in patients with diabetes remain unknown .
Interestingly , crossing of cyclin D1 transgenic mice with E mu L - myc transgenics that express their transgene in both B - and T - cells but predominantly develop T - cell tumours leads in double transgenics exclusively to B - cell neoplasia .
In all cases , only inhibition of PKCalpha inhibited each of these functions when compared to the inhibition of PKCbeta .
Scrutiny of diagnostic indicators for verteporfin administration , including critical angiographic evaluation of lesion size and visual acuity , is essential to treatment success .
Inhibition of PG synthesis was without effect upon desensitization , demonstrating that the effect was not agonist - induced .
( 3 ) .
From mechanisms to therapy and prevention .
Androgen stimulates glycolysis for de novo lipid synthesis by increasing the activities of hexokinase 2 and 6 - phosphofructo - 2 - kinase / fructose - 2 , 6 - bisphosphatase 2 in prostate cancer cells .
Previous studies have shown that activation of the signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 ( STAT5 ) plays an essential role in leukemogenesis mediated through constitutive activated protein tyrosine kinases ( PTK ) .
Photodynamic therapy ( PDT ) is a novel treatment entity that exploits the photophysical properties of various photosensitive chemical entities which , upon light activation , results in targeted photooxidation and subsequent tissue destruction .
We studied the metabolic changes of endothelial cell activation by growth factors using human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) , [ 1 , 2 - ( 13 ) C ( 2 ) ] - glucose and mass isotopomer distribution analysis .
A precise identification of LVI would have a strong clinical impact for breast cancer patients .
In addition , the microtubule - destabilizing agents cause prominent changes in endothelial cell morphology , an action associated with rapid vascular collapse in vivo .
Moreover , in the presence of glucose , the malate - citrate cycle did not appear to play an important role in the glutaminolytic process .
In this study , we examined whether all - trans - retinoic acid ( all - trans - RA ) and other retinoids , which exhibit antitumor activity in vitro and in vivo , affect the collagenolytic activity of metastatic rat 13762NF mammary adenocarcinoma cells .
Cancer cells are different from normal cells in their metabolic properties .
Patients have been treated between January 1996 and October 1997 .
MMP - 2 is involved in the early steps of angiogenesis leading to local dissolution of basement membrane collagen and migration of the activated endothelial cells .
In a multivariate analysis D2 - 40 + was the strongest predictor for ALNM with an odds ratio of 3 . 489 and a P - value of P = 0 . 0003 , followed only by T - stage and grading with odds ratios of 3 . 167 and 1 . 953 and P - values P = 0 . 0003 and P = 0 . 0352 .
These results suggest that the combined action of 3 - BrPA on succinate dehydrogenase and on glycolysis , inhibiting steps downstream of the phosphorylation of glucose , play an important role in HepG2 cell death .
This review article focuses on recent developments in the use of angiogenesis inhibitors for the treatment of breast , lung , and colorectal cancers .
Although the increase in p53 levels could be a secondary by - product of the transformed state , it is equally possible that p53 is actively involved in altering cellular growth properties , especially as it has been implicated in the regulation of normal cell proliferation .
These data suggest that angiogenesis in operable non - small cell lung cancer is a major prognostic factor for survival and , among the parameters tested , is the only factor related to cancer cell migration to lymph nodes .
The aim of this study was to characterize the distribution of hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 in normal and cancerous ovarian tissue and to examine the effects of LL - 37 on ovarian cancer cells .
This study indicates that the simultaneous presence of ITC and VEGFR - 1 expression at premetastatic sites is clinically significant for disease progression .
This review will focus on perlecan - growth factor interactions and describe recent advances in our understanding of this highly conserved proteoglycan during development , cancer growth , and angiogenesis .
In particular , the activity of angiogenic factors is crucial for tumor progression .
Fas - Fas ligand signaling pathway mediates an interleukin - 12 - induced rejection of a murine prostate tumor system .
These complexes are formed on the surface of EC and in a juxtacrine manner via association of tumor cell NRP1 and EC KDR .
E mu cyclin D1 transgenic mice show only very subtle alterations in the cycling behaviour of B - cell populations in the bone marrow compared with normal mice and do not develop lymphoid tumours .
Repression of E - cadherin by transcriptional regulators such as Snail or Twist emerges as one critical step driving EMT , and this stage is currently being molecularly linked with many of the new players .
Circulating endothelial cells in malignant disease .
CONCLUSION : A study of both alpha - catenin and p53 expression may be helpful to predict lymph node metastases in early gastric cancer .
The molecular mechanisms regulating the gene expression under hypoxic conditions could increase the therapeutic window of tumor - specific delivery systems .
In brain , receptors for VEGF have been localized to vascular endothelium , neurons , and glia .
Twenty grafts without bone marrow were implanted as controls .
Interleukin - 6 has been shown to be associated with tumor progression including inhibition of cancer cells apoptosis and stimulation of angiogenesis .
In summary , the angiogenic property of oral cancer cells is mediated by many factors in addition to VEGF and the functional status of p53 .
Western blot was performed to detect the effect of curcumin on the expression of uPA .
Choroidal hyperpermeability was reduced in every case .
There is more and more information on the role of ARF in the regulation of a cell cycle , apoptosis , and autophagy .
In many diseases state body loses control over angiogenesis .
MET expression is rarely detected in primary human melanoma but is frequently observed in metastatic disease .
RASMC proliferation was unaffected by infection with AdCMV . VEGF165 .
There is evidence in experimental and clinical studies that adult bone marrow - derived stem cells and endothelial progenitor cells participate in the development of new blood vessels , called neoangiogenesis or neovascularization .
Neuroblastoma cells and Chang hepatocytes are then plated separately with the conditioned medium and their own standard growth medium as controls .
No significant association between p53 and VEGF expressions and poor prognosis was found .
Histologic parameters ( primary and secondary bone trabecula , neovascularization , and bone marrow and connective tissue formation ) were compared between 4 - and 16 - week groups . More rapid decrease in defect size was observed in groups 3 and 4 than in groups 1 and 2 , both in the 4th and 16th weeks .
So we established that these pathways were crucial to endothelial cell proliferation under vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and fibroblast growth factor ( FGF ) stimulation .
Mice with tumor xenograft and experimental metastasis model were used to evaluate effects on tumor growth and metastasis .
CONCLUSION : These results suggest that mutant p53 expression is associated with angiogenesis and distant metastasis in esophageal SCC , and that the coexpression of p53 and VEGF may play an important role in angiogenesis , and have important clinical significance .
The angiogenic switch occurred in early stages of pre - malignant tumor formation , and tumor angiogenesis was significantly enhanced in TSP - 2 - deficient mice .
TSP - 2 deficiency dramatically enhanced susceptibility to skin carcinogenesis and resulted in accelerated and increased tumor formation .
We found positive Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 immunostaining in 44 . 6 % , 28 . 6 % , and 58 . 9 % of the studied primary tumors and in 63 . 6 % , 45 . 5 % , and 72 . 7 % of lymph node metastases , respectively .
[ ( 18 ) F ] deoxyglucose uptake correlates with glucose transporter ( GLUT - 1 ) expression , which can be regulated by hypoxia - inducible factor 1 alpha ( HIF - 1alpha ) .
However , the mechanism of action and the efficiency in inducing apoptosis of these two proteins are not similar .
We recently observed that FOXO3a gene inactivation occurs frequently in carcinogen - induced lung adenocarcinoma ( LAC ) .
Studies , both in human and animal models support the notion that , various angiogenic growth factors and progenitor cells can enhance new blood vessels .
Dose - and time - dependent effects of doxorubicin on cytotoxicity , cell cycle and apoptotic cell death in human colon cancer cells .
In CX3CR1 - deficient mice , MCs accumulated subretinally with age and albino background and after laser impact preceding retinal degeneration .
Surprisingly , analysis of K5CDK4 and K5CDK2 transgenic mouse embryos showed CDK4 and CDK2 expression not only in the expected tissues , but also in the adenohypophysis .
Met amplification and tumor progression in Cdkn2a - deficient melanocytes .
These disturbed functions are associated with suppression of signaling mechanisms implicated in EC survival and angiogenesis .
The nonspecific character of these pathways led us to hypothesize that circulating cancer cells use similar mechanisms , promoting secondary tumor formation at distal sites .
While the role of protein tyrosine kinases has been examined extensively in human breast tumorigenesis , the role of PTPases in this process is virtually unknown .
Antibodies to PA - 1 dose - dependently , and significantly , inhibited the invasive and migratory potential of human HT1080 fibrosarcoma cells , as did an antibody to uPA and the plasmin inhibitor aprotinin .
Furthermore , these results demonstrate that different changes of proinflammatory cytokines , CRP and inhibiting factors are consistent with associated clinical benefit or with disease progression , respectively .
Our in vivo metastasis mouse model is useful for studying the efficacy of therapeutic regimes of ovarian cancer .
BACKGROUND : M - CSF recruits mononuclear phagocytes which regulate processes such as angiogenesis and metastases in tumors .
Two of them were selected for high or low osteonectin expression and tested in vivo in spontaneous and artificial metastasis assays .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : An Affymetrix expression microarray was used to compare gene expression profiles between six pairs of TFs and normal fibroblasts from esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( ESCC ) .
RESULTS : U - 995 ( 15 and 30 micrograms / ml ) markedly inhibited HUVEC migration and , at 15 - 50 micrograms / ml produced a dose - dependent decline in [ 3H ] - thymidine incorporation .
However , in Apc mutation - induced intestinal tumors , inactivation of Hes1 alone was sufficient for reducing tumor cell proliferation and inducing differentiation of tumor cells into all types of intestinal epithelial cells , but without affecting the homeostasis of normal crypts owing to genetic redundancy .
In multivariate analysis , PE was found to be a significant ( P = 0 . 03 ) predictor of overall survival ( OS ) with adjustment of the other baseline covariates , including patient age , history of antecedent hematologic disorders , and the use of protective environments .
We propose that this novel , central metabolic role is at the core of the addiction for STAT3 shown by so many biologically different tumours .
It may modulate cellular energy metabolism or be a substrate in a chemical reaction generating reactive oxygen species .
A significant correlation between LDH5 and TKTL1 within each histologic tumortype could not be revealed .
Administration of exogenous polyamines prevented ACA - induced apoptosis represented by a reduction in the number of apoptotic bodies and also caused reduction in the induced caspase - 3 - like protease activity at 8 h .
However , it is unclear whether sunitinib acts only through an antiangiogenic mechanism or whether it may also directly target tumor cells .
Transient circulating levels of angioactive molecules and serial high - resolution imaging studies of focal angiogenesis might help .
Nevertheless , patients who achieved complete remission ( CR ) had a significantly lower median PE level compared to those who did not .
Ectopic expression of Cdc25a prevented UV - induced S - phase arrest in keratinocytes lacking Erbb2 activity , demonstrating that maintenance of Cdc25a by Erbb2 suppresses cell cycle arrest .
Vimentin was expressed preferentially in tumor cells of high - grade ductal breast carcinomas ( 15 of 28 histologic grade 3 vs . 0 of 40 grades 1 and 2 ) .
Here , we established lymph node metastasis models by injecting overexpressing VEGF - D Lewis lung carcinoma cells into C57BL / 6 mice to explore the effect of honokiol on tumor - associated lymphangiogenesis and related lymph node metastasis .
In addition , LMP1 plays pleiotropic roles in cell growth arrest , differentiation , and apoptosis , depending on the background of the target cells .
METHODS : Immunohistochemical and PCR - SSCP techniques were used to detect c - kit protein expression and c - kit gene exon 11 mutation in 82 patients with GIST .
Rearrangement of the c - myc gene was common in the plasmacytomas , implying a synergistic role for myc and bcl - 2 in their etiology , but was not detected in the lymphomas .
Evaluation of electrical stimulation for ischemic wound therapy : a feasibility study using the lapine wound model .
Despite these suggestive observations , no formal proof is as yet available for the concept that angiogenesis is a physiologic event that occurs all over the mature mammalian integument whenever hair follicles switch from resting ( telogen ) to active growth ( anagen ) .
Therefore , we used a targeted mutant mouse model to test the hypothesis that monoallelic deletion of beclin 1 promotes tumorigenesis .
In vivo p53 response and immune reaction underlie highly effective low - dose radiotherapy in follicular lymphoma .
Clinical data on bevacizumab is discussed in detail .
We investigated the biological significance of estrogen receptors ( ERs ) in NIH3T3 cell transformation by the [ 12Val ] K - Ras mutant .
The overexpression of Tsg101 resulted in increased phosphorylation of the epidermal growth factor receptor and downstream activation of MAP kinases .
Experiments with a temperature - sensitive mutant of Rous sarcoma virus demonstrated that a single oncogene product is sufficient to inhibit the synthesis .
It was also shown by our studies that apoptosis was induced in DU - 145 prostate carcinoma cells with significant cytotoxicity , no matter which agent applied first .
Trib1 and Evi1 cooperate with Hoxa and Meis1 in myeloid leukemogenesis .
Patients with other genetic blistering disorders do not have elevated collagenase or an increased risk of squamous cell carcinoma , despite chronic wounding .
PLGA - heparin microspheres released out bFGF in a more sustained manner with a smaller extent of initial burst than PLGA microspheres , indicating that surface immobilized heparin controlled the release rate of bFGF .
No [ 13C ] glucose utilization was detected in H4 spheroids , but uptake of alanine and accumulation of labeled lactate , glutamate and glutamine indicated oxidation via the tricarboxylic acid ( TCA ) cycle .
Bone marrow with its unique native properties produced autocrine angiogenicity in the graft .
Stimulatory effects on proliferation and migration of human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVEC ) characterized the angiogenic properties of oral cancer cells but not normal oral keratinocytes ( NOK ) .
Insulin - like growth factor 1 receptor enhances invasion and induces resistance to apoptosis of colon cancer cells through the Akt / Bcl - x ( L ) pathway .
Epithelial - mesenchymal transitions ( EMTs ) occur as key steps during embryonic morphogenesis , and are now implicated in the progression of primary tumors towards metastases .
A positive correlation between blood vessel volume and bone volume density was found in the younger new - bone area but not in the oldest new - bone area .
Expression of the cytolytic effectors perforin , granzyme B9 , and the granule membrane protein TIA1 were examined in 24 putative NK - cell lymphomas , 18 postthymic T - cell lymphomas ( one case CD8 + CD56 + and three anaplastic large cell lymphomas ( ALCL ) , three T - lymphoblastic lymphomas , and 20 B - cell lymphomas .
In this study , 14 of 18 lung cancer cell lines ( 78 % ) expressed CD40 on their surface .
BACKGROUND : Inhibition of angiogenesis reverses rodent obesity .
Immunohistochemistry scores for matrix metalloproteinase - 9 expression were significantly elevated compared to controls in scar endothelial cells and fibroblasts from 2 until 12 and 20 weeks , respectively .
To define these roles more clearly , we examined the expression of DCC and its ligand , netrin - 1 , in the normal endometrium and in endometrial cancer .
The antitumor activity of cRGD - HL was also evaluated by monitoring tumor growth and microvessel formation in squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC7 ) tumor .
Furthermore , we show that VEGF - A stimulation of hemopoietic cells does not significantly alter this process .
Liposomal honokiol inhibits VEGF - D - induced lymphangiogenesis and metastasis in xenograft tumor model .
In 11 there was complete wound healing , while in 1 there was partial response , in 1 minimal response , and in 1 a transient response .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : Porous PLGA microspheres having primary amine groups on the surface were prepared using an oil - in - water ( O / W ) single emulsion method using Pluronic F - 127 as an extractable porogen .
The induction of Ets - 1 in ECs after denudation was regulated transcriptionally , and humeral factors released from injured ECs might not be responsible .
Furthermore , cyclopamine reduced tumor blood vessel permeability to FITC labeled dextran while having no effect on normal blood vessels .
Endothelial cell migration was increased by Rab5a depletion but decreased by Rab7a depletion .
As reported previously ( Namba et al . , 1985 ; Namba , 1985 ) , normal human fibroblasts were transformed into immortal cells with abnormal karyotypes by Co - 60 gamma - ray irradiation .
After MNNG administration , rats were investigated by endoscopic observation , visualization of microvascular structure , and estimation of lectin binding sites .
Anoikis was preceded by induction and transloction of a 45 - kDa clusterin isoform to the nucleus .
The rapid cleavage of Tie1 is followed by a transcriptional down - regulation in response to shear stress .
Concordance in topo I staining between primary and lymph node metastases was observed in 33 of 42 cases ( P = . 029 ) .
Transformation of BHK hamster fibroblasts by an env - strain of Rous sarcoma virus ( RSV ) leads to the appearance at the cell surface of a virus - induced nonvirion antigen ( VCSA ) , specific for transformation , whose expression is controlled by the transforming src gene .
Interactions among growth factors , cells , and extracellular matrix regulate proliferation during normal development and in pathologies such as atherosclerosis .
The tumour suppressor p53 and interferon - alpha and - beta ( IFN - alpha / beta ) are essential for the induction of apoptosis in cancerous cells and in antiviral immune responses , respectively , but little is known about their interrelationship .
CONCLUSIONS : Enoxaparine Na decreased intra - abdominal adhesions , and HBO therapy had no beneficial effect on adhesions .
Phosphatase and tension homolog deleted on chromosome 10 ( PTEN ) , a tumor suppressor , is frequently deficient in various pathologies due to mutation or epigenetic alterations .
Recent studies have shown that E - cadherin has an important role as an invasion suppressor molecule in epithelial tumor cells .
The effect of angiopoietin 1 depends on the tumour model .
CNV size did not affect visual outcomes .
Recently , the role of AQPs in human carcinogenesis has become an area of great interest .
METHODS : The study included 60 patients with a known prognosis of invasive breast cancer .
Skin deep and deeper : multiple pathways in basal cell carcinogenesis .
Thyroid transcription factor - 1 ( TTF - 1 ) is expressed in lung adenocarcinomas and thyroid carcinomas but not in adenocarcinomas arising from other sites .
We conclude that prefabrication of a fat flap is possible and may have extensive application in various areas of plastic surgery .
Left ventricular weight , body weight , and their ratio were not significantly altered by alinidine treatment .
Here we report that the distal region of the hepatoma type II hexokinase promoter displays consensus motifs for hypoxia - inducible factor ( HIF - 1 ) that overlap E - box sequences known to be related in other gene promoters to glucose response .
Effect of thalidomide affecting VEGF secretion , cell migration , adhesion and capillary tube formation of human endothelial EA . hy 926 cells .
To investigate the significance of the C - terminal Abl actin - binding domain within Bcr / Abl p190 in the development of leukemia / lymphoma in vivo , mutant p190 DNA constructs were used to generate transgenic mice .
Overexpression of ST3 correlated with the progression of human colorectal tumors toward local invasion and liver metastasis .
The EGF receptor gene is amplified and over - expressed in several human tumors , suggesting that increased concentrations of the proto - oncogene leads to constitutive activity similar to that seen with oncogene erb B .
This pathway has been implicated to play a role in the pathogenesis of cancer and in embryonic blood vessel development .
35 % of eyes improved their BCVA by 2 lines or more , 45 % remained stable and 18 % lost 2 lines or more .
In the meantime preventive use of bisphosphonates in patients without any bone metastases should not be used outside the scope of a clinical trial .
Neither the synthesis nor some basic activities of MyoD appeared to be affected by wt SVLT .
They establish cyclin D1 as a proto - oncogene whose activity appears to depend on a specific cell type as well as on a specific cooperating partner and link disturbances in the regulation of cell cycle progression to the development of human malignancies .
p63 - positive cells were found in 16 % of carcinomas .
Positron emission tomography in a case of intracranial hemangiopericytoma .
Previously , we reported that topical exposure to Cum - OOH caused formation of free radicals and oxidative stress in the skin of vitamin E - deficient mice .
Although the exact mechanisms underlying the Warburg effect are unclear , the existing evidence suggests that increased glycolysis plays an important role in support malignant behavior of cancer cells .
In damaged and inflamed tissue , LL - 37 functions as a chemoattractant , mitogen and pro - angiogenic factor suggesting that the peptide may potentiate tumor progression .
The effects of radiation on neovascularization in a rat model .
Twenty - one percent of clinically unaffected family members had elevated levels of bFGF , and 13 % of patients with EBS had elevated levels of bFGF .
BACKGROUND : The murine nm23 gene suppresses the metastatic behavior of malignant rodent tumor lines , and reduced nm23 expression correlates with increased likelihood of lymph node metastases in human breast cancers .
PURPOSE : Antiangiogenic therapy is considered as an effective strategy for controlling the growth and metastasis of tumors .
All treatments resulted in significant changes in vascular volume with time , while only DMBA treatments alone resulted in significant changes in vascular permeability with time .
Both groups received either 0 . 5 mg / ml linomide in drinking water or acidified water and were followed until tumor diameter reached 3 cm or for 4 weeks .
METHODS : Tumor biopsy specimens and serum were obtained from 37 neuroblastoma patients ; adrenal biopsy sections and sera of 7 normal children served as controls .
Angiogenesis is a key event in the progression of malignant gliomas .
The aim of this study was to ascertain the potential usefulness of the antiangiogenic compound linomide for treatment of von Hippel - Lindau ( VHL ) - related tumors .
However , mice treated with t - butanol , an alcohol not metabolized by alcohol dehydrogenase , exhibited no change in wound vascularity .
Bovine capillary endothelial cells are also stimulated to actively migrate when exposed to EGF in vitro .
These findings indicated that DATS inhibits tumor growth in an allograft animal model .
Loss - of - function effects were also observed in HIF - 1alpha - null embryonic stem cells .
Angiogenesis is the biologic process of forming new blood vessels .
Further prospective studies are needed to prove the clinical impact of D2 - 40 .
Importantly , Bax and Bak were rapidly translocated to the mitochondria 30 min after betulin treatment .
Antioxidants significantly reduced TNFalpha - induced genetic damage .
PURPOSE : Head and neck squamous cell carcinomas have been reported to overexpress hypoxia - inducible factor ( HIF ) - 1alpha , a transcription factor that promotes expression of angiogenesis factors and resistance to programmed and therapy - induced cell death .
Consequently , mitochondrial integrity is compromised , and the caspase - 9 - dependent cascade is activated in treated tumor cells .
We show that ING4 physically interacts with p65 ( RelA ) subunit of nuclear factor NF - kappaB , and that ING4 regulates brain tumour angiogenesis through transcriptional repression of NF - kappaB - responsive genes .
Proteomic comparison of nasopharyngeal cancer cell lines C666 - 1 and NP69 identifies down - regulation of annexin II and beta2 - tubulin for nasopharyngeal carcinoma .
The development and progression of colorectal cancer ( CRC ) is a multi - step process , and the Wnt pathways with its two molecular gladiators adenomatous polyposis coli ( APC ) and beta - catenin plays an important role in transforming a normal tissue into a malignant one .
Based on our results , we hypothesize that FGFR2 ( + ) - TFs might provide cancer cells with a suitable microenvironment via secretion of proteins that could promote cancer development and progression through stimulation of cancer cell proliferation , induction of angiogenesis , inhibition of cell adhesion , enhancement of cell mobility , and promotion of the epithelial - mesenchymal transition .
Gastric cancer metastasized when ITCs were observed in the presence of VEGFR - 1 .
3H - Cytosine arabinoside incorporation into the DNA was enhanced 1 . 33 - to 18 . 3 - fold over respective controls in 14 of 17 patients .
Angiogenesis is essential for tumor growth and metastasis .
The expression of SREBP and Cdc42 were determined by Western blot and quantitative real - time PCR .
From 35 to 100 % of the whole amount of ATP resynthesized via glycolysis is utilized for transport purposes .
Angiogenesis plays a critical role in the growth and metastasis of tumors .
Treatment with anti - Fas for 48 h induced apoptosis with cells exhibiting typical apoptotic features including loss of cell contact , condensation of chromatin , and increased staining of the nuclear membrane .
Exposure to platelets resulted in significantly increased uPA and VEGF content of SKOV3 cell conditioned medium .
This study was aimed to determine the minimal fragment of PEDF , which maintains antiangiogenic and antitumor efficacy .
The CD47 receptor did slightly increase with malignancy except for H3327 .
The pro - oncogenic transcription factor STAT3 is constitutively activated in a wide variety of tumours that often become addicted to its activity , but no unifying view of a core function determining this widespread STAT3 - dependence has yet emerged .
Antiangiogenic and antitumor effects of a protein kinase Cbeta inhibitor in human breast cancer and ovarian cancer xenografts .
In vivo assay further showed that GSE could inhibit tumor growth and tumor angiogenesis of MDA - MB - 231 breast cancer cells in mice .
Rats were immunized with irradiated hepatoma cells transduced by herpes viral amplicon vectors containing the genes for GM - CSF , IL - 2 or LacZ .
Unlike the majority of somatic cells , in which hTERT and telomerase activity are generally silent , normal lymphocytes show transient physiological hTERT expression and telomerase activity according to their differentiation / activation status .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : Twenty - one patients with radiation retinopathy ( edema , hemorrhages , capillary dropout , and neovascularization ) and a subjective or objective loss of vision were treated .
Recent reports suggest a participation of matrix metalloproteinases ( MMP ) in tumour pericyte recruitment that is consistent with the effect of certain MMPs in the development of microvasculature in embryonic development and in in vitro models of vascular remodelling .
Identification of Dss1 as a 12 - O - tetradecanoylphorbol - 13 - acetate - responsive gene expressed in keratinocyte progenitor cells , with possible involvement in early skin tumorigenesis .
Collectively , these data suggest that the DSCR1s promoter directs vascular bed - specific expression in activated endothelium and that DSCR - 1s serves to dampen the host response to infection .
We have previously reported in established breast lines that HIF - 1alpha levels in the presence of oxygen leads to the Warburg effect .
The aim of this study was to compare the incidence of BRCA1 promoter region methylation in tumours in which loss of BRCA1 has been shown to play a role in pathogenesis ( breast and ovarian carcinomas ) with the incidence in tumours in which BRCA1 is unlikely to play a role in pathogenesis .
The findings in the tissue samples were analyzed with regard to the patients ' risk factors and clinical course .
c - MYC functions as a molecular switch to alter the response of human mammary epithelial cells to oncostatin M .
TEMF treatment continued for 3 additional weeks .
Acquired molecular abnormalities ( mutations or chromosomal translocations ) of the RUNX1 transcription factor gene are frequent in acute myeloblastic leukemias ( AMLs ) and in therapy - related myelodysplastic syndromes , but rarely in acute lymphoblastic leukemias ( ALLs ) and chronic myelogenous leukemias ( CMLs ) .
After SCC transformation , the absence of G45 domain in DeltaG45 cells was associated with deficient extracellular signal - regulated kinase and phosphotidylinositol 3 - kinase ( PI3K ) pathway activation , impaired invasion , deficient metalloproteinase activity , and absent tumorgenicity in vivo .
Aberrant angiogenesis is often associated with lesion formation in chronic periodontitis .
In addition , ischemia induces expression of HIF1alpha in hypoxic tissue .
Netrin - 1 up - regulation in inflammatory bowel diseases is required for colorectal cancer progression .
RESULTS : P14 and P18 blocked endothelial cell chemotaxis ; P18 and P23 induced apoptosis .
In contrast , none of the patients with JEB had elevated levels of bFGF .
The B ( 1 ) R appeared either as cytoplasmic dots or labeling on the apical cell membrane of the cells composing the epithelia with intestinal metaplasia ( 24 / 24 ; 100 % ) and carcinoma in situ ( 10 / 10 ; 100 % ) and in the epithelial cells of adenomas .
Exposure to combinations of paclitaxel or carboplatin and 317615 x 2HCl with MX - 1 cells in culture resulted in cell survival that reflected primarily additivity of the two agents .
MMP - 2 was increased with malignancy , but no expression of MMP - 9 was seen .
IUGR fetuses are both hypoxic and hypoglycaemic , and have reduced insulin and insulin - like growth factor - 1 ( IGF - 1 ) , and elevated concentrations of lactate .
Several members were detected in insulinoma cell lines and rat islets and expression levels positively correlated with insulin abundance , particularly for p24delta1 and p24beta1 .
Notably , the activation of BMPRII by BMP - 2 is required for modulation of Smad activation by NF - kappaB in PC cells .
A novel role of thrombospondin - 1 in cervical carcinogenesis : inhibit stroma reaction by inhibiting activated fibroblasts from invading cancer .
To investigate the possibility that this regulatory connection contributes to Myb ' s oncogenicity , we expressed a dominant negative Myb in the myeloid leukemic cell line RI - 4 - 11 .
Dopamine pretreatment increases the translocation and colocalization of Src - homology - 2 - domain - containing protein tyrosine phosphatase ( SHP - 2 ) with D2DR at the cell surface .
However , the role of the TSH - R - related cAMP pathway alterations in thyroid transformation remains to be elucidated .
Expression and purification of the catalytic domain of human vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 for inhibitor screening .
The number of lymph node metastases was significantly higher in HEC1A / VEGF - C cells than in HEC1A cells ( 3 . 2 vs 1 . 1 nodes / animal , respectively ) .
Melissoidesin G ( MOG ) is a new diterpenoid purified from Isodon melissoides , a plant used in Chinese traditional medicine as antitumor and anti - inflammatory agents .
The positive staining of nm23 - H1 gene product in primary cancers and metastatic lymph nodes were observed in 56 . 5 and 67 . 4 % , respectively .
Several of these inhibitors are currently being evaluated in clinical trials .
We have previously reported that intercellular adhesion molecule - 3 ( ICAM - 3 ) is associated with an increase of cellular radio - resistance and cancer cell proliferation .
These cells , but not control cells , showed altered growth properties and anchorage - independent growth in soft agar .
These results suggest that SWAP - 70 may be required for oncogenic transformation and contributes to cell growth in MEFs transformed by v - Src .
These results indicate that Ets - 1 is induced in ECs after denudation through activation of p38 .
Further , delivery of an appropriate combination of DAPT and VEGF from an injectable alginate hydrogel system into ischemic hindlimbs led to a faster recovery of blood flow than VEGF or DAPT alone ; perfusion levels reached 80 % of the normal level by week 4 with combined DAPT and VEGF delivery .
Silencing of directional migration in roundabout4 knockdown endothelial cells .
Expression of hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 was localized to immune and granulosa cells of normal ovarian tissue .
Similar results were also obtained with respect to 5 - FU .
T140 analogs as CXCR4 antagonists identified as anti - metastatic agents in the treatment of breast cancer .
Angiogenesis - - one of the hallmarks of cancer - - has emerged as a valid therapeutic target in oncology .
PURPOSE : Clinical studies have demonstrated that intensive insulin therapy causes a transient worsening of retinopathy .
The stromal cells in turn produce factors that nurture the tumor .
A selective marker of normal and neoplastic mesothelial cells in serous effusions .
The Hedgehog pathway antagonist cyclopamine effectively reduced Shh - induced proliferation to control levels .
Marrow cells survived and continued exogenous hemopoiesis for up to six months and were immunohistochemically reactive to basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) .
Hypoxic induction of HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma lines is mediated by stress activated protein kinases .
One of the most common signatures of highly malignant tumors is their capacity to metabolize more glucose to lactic acid than their tissues of origin .
The tumor cells also display enhanced expression of desmosomal and tight - junction proteins .
In addition suppression of WT1 expression by WT1 anti - sense oligonucleotide inhibits proliferation of leukemia cells , suggesting that WT1 is important for their proliferation .
Furthermore , the formation of complexes containing KDR and NRP1 markedly increased 125I - VEGF165 binding to KDR .
Overexpression of CYR61 , CTGF , WISP - 1 , and NOV occurred in 48 % ( 32 of 66 ) , 58 % ( 38 of 66 ) , 36 % ( 24 of 66 ) , and 15 % ( 10 of 66 ) of primary gliomas , respectively .
All had palpable pedal pulses .
We examined these cell lines and samples from breast cancer by RT - PCR for the expressions of OPG and RANKL mRNA .
Autochthonous vessels surrounding other tumors such as renal - cell carcinomas or malignant lymphomas also frequently expressed somatostatin receptors .
Curcumin inhibits metastatic progression of breast cancer cell through suppression of urokinase - type plasminogen activator by NF - kappa B signaling pathways .
New bone formation was detected to be more rapid considering histologic parameters , in groups 3 and 4 at 4th and 16th weeks . Study demonstrates that PRP and PPP might have favorable effects on bone healing .
The results in steady state reveal that both substrates glucose and glutamine are continuously wasted by tumour cells , excreting two moles of lactate per mol of glucose and one mol of glutamate and ammonia per mol of glutamine consumed into the medium .
To study Hedgehog signaling in vivo a hind limb tumor model with the B16F0 cell line was used .
CONCLUSIONS : This study provides evidence that EPOX induces glutathione depletion , ERK inactivation , and Mcl - 1 degradation on endothelial cells , which leads to inhibition of angiogenesis .
The early closure of all wounds implies that the rabbit ear model may not be valid for chronic wound studies .
TSP - 1 mRNA levels were decreased in all tumours compared with normal prostate .
These findings advance our understanding of the functions of N - myc in neuroblastoma cells .
This review will focus on recent studies to define the molecular mechanisms for the antivascular actions of the MBDs , information that could be useful in the identification or design of agents whose actions more selectively target the tumor vasculature .
We hypothesized that Erbb2 activation contributes to UV - induced skin tumorigenesis by suppressing cell cycle arrest .
Diverse cell signaling events modulated by perlecan .
Pre - treatment with rapamycin inhibited activation of mTOR signalling and significantly enhanced the sensitivity of CaSki cells to paclitaxel by increasing apoptotic cell death .
alpha - MSH also induces activation of NF - kappa B but does not modulate DNA binding on costimulation with IL - 1 beta .
Administration of thalidomide at the concentration of 0 . 01 microM increased cell migration , while at 10 microM , it decreased cell migration .
It is concluded that its action is targeted to tumor neovasculature and the mechanism is inhibition of tumor angiogenesis .
Role of the interferon - inducible IFI16 gene in the induction of ICAM - 1 by TNF - alpha .
Use of uteroglobin for the engineering of polyvalent , polyspecific fusion proteins .
HTPB significantly suppresses tumor metastasis partly through inhibition of integrin - beta1 / FAK / MMP / RhoA / F - actin pathways .
Thus , a distinct WNT / TCF signaling program through LEF1 and HOXB9 enhances the competence of lung adenocarcinoma cells to colonize the bones and the brain .
The virus - altered cells continued to proliferate in the presence of high levels of extracellular calcium but exhibited alterations in normal keratinocyte terminal differentiation that appear to be specific to the particular oncogene .
The amount of radioactivity released into the medium during the subsequent 24 to 72 h was measured , and it was found that all - trans - RA treatment inhibited degradation of extracellular matrix and type IV collagen by 50 to 60 % .
Expression of HER2 and bradykinin B1 receptors in precursor lesions of gallbladder carcinoma .
Forty - seven specimens resected from patients with stage II and III squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) of the esophagus were studied using immunohistochemical staining .
In fact , p75 ( NTR ) depresses the VEGF - A / Akt / eNOS / NO pathway and additionally reduces the mRNA levels of ITGB1 [ beta ( 1 ) integrin ] , BIRC5 ( survivin ) , PTTG1 ( securin ) and VEZF1 .
In a multivariate analysis , N - stage and vascular grade were not found to be independent prognostic factors , since they were strongly related to each other .
In spheroids , the glucose consumption ( 2 . 1 p mole / cell / h ) and lactate production ( 3 . 67 p mole / cell / h ) was nearly 2 - 3 fold higher than in monolayer cells ( 0 . 83 and 1 . 43 p mole / cell / h respectively ) .
We previously reported that a single dose of ethanol ( 1 . 4 g / kg ) , yielding a blood alcohol concentration of 100 mg / dl , significantly impairs angiogenesis in murine wounds , despite adequate levels of VEGF , suggesting direct effects of ethanol on endothelial cell signaling ( 40 ) .
Therapeutic Electromagnetic Field ( TEMF ) and gamma irradiation on human breast cancer xenograft growth , angiogenesis and metastasis .
The prevailing model for Notch signaling suggests that ligand , presented on a neighboring cell , triggers proteolytic processing of Notch .
Furthermore , we showed that glycogen was depleted in a low glucose medium , but conserved under hypoxic conditions .
Successful FV closure was usually indicated immediately by presence of incarcerated ICG dye in the vessel adjacent to the burn site .
The aim of the study was to investigate the potential influence of thalidomide on the several steps of angiogenesis , using in vitro models .
The aims of the present study were to compare , in vitro and in vivo , the antiangiogenic and antitumor activities of metronomic irinotecan ( CPT - 11 ) , oxaliplatin ( L - OHP ) and 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) in colorectal cancer and to investigate the metronomic combination of these drugs .
The function of p53 tumor suppressor is often altered in various human tumors predominantly through missense - mutations resulting in accumulation of mutant proteins .
It is considered that resection of the primary tumor induces activation of systemic angiogenesis and enhances progression of remote metastasis .
Following proteolysis , it is thought that the intracellular portion of Notch ( N ( ic ) ) translocates to the nucleus , where it is involved in regulating gene expression .
Moreover , in advanced TNM stages , cases without metastasis had higher KISS1 gene expression compared to those with lymph node metastasis ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
PURPOSE : We prepared tumor endothelium targeted cRGD - modified heparin derivative ( cRGD - HL ) by coupling heparin - lithocholic acid ( HL ) with cRGDyK , and evaluated inhibition effects of cRGD - HL on angiogenesis and tumor growth .
Tissue factor ( TF ) is an essential initiator of blood coagulation that is expressed in various stages of atherosclerotic lesions in humans and other animals .
Phenolic fraction of tobacco smoke condensate potentiates benzo [ a ] pyerene diol epoxide - induced cell transformation : role of protein kinase C .
SOC activation in rat pulmonary arterial endothelial cells increased free cytosolic Ca2 + that was dependent on a membrane current having a net inward component of 5 . 45 + / - 0 . 90 pA / pF at - 80 mV .
Concomitant inhibition of autophagy may be an attractive strategy for unlocking the antitumor potential of sorafenib in HCC .
Hemostatic factors play a crucial role in generating thrombotic plugs at sites of vascular damage ( atherothrombosis ) .
Our results strongly suggest that estradiol has a critical role in the regulation of IL - 8 in normal human breast tissue and human breast cancer .
Loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 in gastric carcinoma .
We further show that down - regulation of caspase 3 via overexpression of RASSF1C reduces breast cancer cells ' sensitivity to the apoptosis inducing agent , etoposide .
The resulting mechanistic model confirms previous work proposing that 2 - BE induces macrophage activation and inflammation in the liver .
A connection between CAM and adipose tissue vessels was evidenced by immunohistochemistry , with recruitment of both avian and human endothelial cells .
This potentiation is accompanied by up - regulation of the expression of VEGF receptors ( kinase insert domain - containing receptor [ KDR ] and fms - like tyrosine kinase [ Flt - 1 ] ) .
In vitro wound migration and single - cell motility by PECAM - 1 - null endothelial cells were also compromised .
The frequency of elevated bFGF values among all groups was statistically significant ( p = 0 . 002 ) , and the levels of bFGF in RDEB patients were significantly elevated compared with those of other groups ( p less than 0 . 05 ) .
The ras - transformed , ATX - secreting subclones had enhanced motility to ATX as chemoattractant , but there was little difference in the motility responses of NIH3T3 cells transfected with atx , an inactive mutant gene , or empty vector .
In addition , it inhibits human umbilical vein endothelial cell proliferation , migration , adhesion , tubular network formation , and bFGF - induced neovascularization in a chick chorioallantoic membrane .
METHODS : Bovine aortic endothelial cells ( ECs ) were cultured .
Our data suggest that low oxygen upregulates FGFR1 expression in embryonic aorta in vitro and renders it more responsive to FGF2 .
Similar differences in NME protein levels were observed in tumors induced by the two cell lines in nude mice .
Surprisingly , the level of leukocyte adhesion in ear venules of mice with a large flank tumor was also reduced significantly .
BACKGROUND : A potent angiogenesis inhibitor , U - 995 , has been purified from the cartilage of the blue shark ( Prionace glauca ) .
In addition , activation of transforming growth factor beta ( TGF - beta ) by TSP - 1 plays a crucial role in the regulation of tumor progression .
Activation of Notch proto - oncogenes has been associated with tumorigenesis in several human and other mammalian cancers .
A remarkable delay of tumor growth and prolonged life span were also observed .
Previous work has shown that a rabbit anti - VCSA serum lyses specifically , in the presence of complement , 51Cr - labelled RSV - transformed cells from different animal species .
Following i . v . infusion with [ 13C ] alanine , [ 13C ] lactate and glutamate , evidence of oxidation via the TCA cycle , were observed in H4 tumors .
However FOXO3a induction has little effect on cell proliferation , indicating that FOXO3a or its downstream activity is deregulated in the cytotoxic drug resistant breast cancer cells .
Only 26 protein spots had a positive result , including annexin1 , S100A4 , and so on .
Some human cancer cells have been found to overexpress eph mRNAs without gene amplification .
In particular , VEGF - C seems to play a key role in prostate cancer metastasis .
Our data identify what we believe to be new functions for PTHrP in several key steps of breast cancer and suggest that PTHrP may constitute a novel target for therapeutic intervention .
In the present study , a novel inhibitor of angiogenesis was synthesized by covalently linking a nonanticoagulating derivative of heparin , heparin adipic hydrazide ( HAH ) , by an acid - labile bond to the antiangiogenic steroid , cortisol .
During the further course no deterioration of the condition was observed .
The system also permits precise aiming and delivery of 810 - nm wavelength photocoagulation laser energy to target FVs on a real - time ICG angiogram image of the choroidal vasculature .
However , we need to determine whether it happens in breast cancer .
Highly specialized cells , the thyrocytes , express a thyroid - specific set of genes for thyroglobulin ( Tg ) , thyroperoxidase , and the transcription factors TTF - 1 , TTF - 2 , and Pax - 8 .
Here , we investigated whether angiogenesis and tumor metastasis are dependent on hypoxia conditioning - induced TB4 expression in B16F10 melanoma cells .
Inactivation of IGF - IR resulted in a loss of endothelial cells , accompanied by dramatic changes in fetal lung explant morphology .
Cancer cells typically display gene dysfunction and endogenous or exogenous insults resulting in gene dysfunction are often carcinogenic .
Six weeks later , mice were randomly divided into four treatment groups : untreated controls ; 10 minute daily TEMF ; 200 cGy of IR every other day ( total 800 cGy ) ; IR plus daily TEMF .
At necropsy , all macroscopic colonic tumors were identified and histologically classified as dysplasia or adenocarcinoma .
We suggest that the rarity of observed BRCA1 mutations in sporadic breast and ovarian cancer is due to the greater likelihood of BRCA1 inactivation by non - mutational mechanisms such as methylation .
However , unlike tumor invasion , trophoblast invasion of the uterus is stringently controlled in situ by local molecules such as transforming growth factor ( TGF ) beta .
This protein is produced in large amounts by fibroblasts cultivated in vitro .
Hypoxia - responsive element - mediated soluble Tie2 vector exhibits an anti - angiogenic activity in vitro under hypoxic condition .
In contrast , intact beta2GPI does not bind to AS4 . 5 or inhibit its antiangiogenic activity .
The reduced CK1delta activity did not affect early lesion formation during tumorigenesis , suggesting that impaired CK1delta activity reduces the probability for outgrowth of in situ carcinomas to invasive carcinomas .
The antiapoptotic effect of FVIIa was confirmed by the observation that FVIIa attenuated caspase 3 activation .
Our in vitro studies showed that NIH3T3 cells overexpressing BI - 1 displayed a significantly higher growth rate and formed more and larger colonies than the control cells .
There was strong correlation between percentage perforin - positive cells and zonal tumor cell death .
The AAE and the AAPD are positioned to begin preparation of best practice guidelines that share common language and treatment recommendations for pulp therapies performed by both specialties .
Although implicated as a tumor suppressor , its role in sporadic cancer is uncertain .
High - grade CC - RCC showed a higher ECP % ( P = 0 . 049 ) , a higher TCP % ( P = 0 . 009 ) , a higher VEGF protein expression ( P less than 0 . 001 ) , a lower MVD ( P less than 0 . 001 ) and a lower HIF - 1alpha protein expression ( P = 0 . 002 ) than low - grade CC - RCC .
Furthermore , this decreased expression was also observed in the other myeloproliferative disorders , polycythemia rubra vera ( PRV ) and essential thrombocythemia ( ET ) .
On day 41 , rats were killed and tumor nodules were counted .
We used a series of cell clones from a human teratocarcinoma cell line , PA - 1 , to study the effect of transformation by an activated N - ras oncogene on the expression of genes involved in retinoic acid ( RA ) - induced differentiation and growth regulation .
Syndecan - 1 expression in mammary epithelial tumor cells is E - cadherin - dependent .
Paclitaxel treatment resulted in MAPK activation and apoptosis of MDA - MB - 231 breast cancer cells , and both processes were inhibited by Dex pretreatment .
VEGF is the key player in tumor angiogenesis .
The value of serum S - 100beta and interleukins as tumour markers in advanced melanoma .
In this review , we will discuss the current knowledge of MTSS1 ' s role in cancer metastasis , carcinogenesis , and development .
Recently , it was repeatedly demonstrated that statins , competitive inhibitors of 3 - hydroxy - 3 - methyl glutaryl coenzyme A ( HMG - CoA ) reductase , have antineoplastic effects .
The authors report on a case series of 13 patients with recurrent heavily pretreated malignant glioma that was treated with the combination of bevacizumab and irinotecan .
The polycomb gene Bmi - 1 is required for the self - renewal of stem cells from diverse tissues , including the central nervous system ( CNS ) .
Here we show that angiogenesis is severely impaired in PSMA - null animals and that this angiogenic defect occurs at the level of endothelial cell invasion through the extracellular matrix barrier .
The findings are discussed in relation to previous morphologic studies , reports of in vitro mast - cell - mediated tumor cytotoxicity , and the role of mast cells in angiogenesis and connective tissue proliferation .
There is considerable debate concerning where in the cell Notch functions and what proteins serve as effectors of the Notch signal .
BACKGROUND : The PI3K - Akt signal pathway plays a key role in tumorigenesis and the development of drug - resistance .
Manipulation of Rab7a GTPase activity associated with late endosomes using overexpression of wild - type or mutant proteins blocks activated VEGFR2 trafficking and degradation .
Two approaches were used to measure protein kinase C : assay of intact cells for inhibition of epidermal growth factor ( EGF ) binding in response to phorbol dibutyrate ( PDBu ) ; and assay of detergent extracts for total calcium , phospholipid - dependent kinase activity .
The medical records were reviewed independent of the staining results to determine site of tumor origin .
Curcumin ( 1 , 7 - bis ( 4 - hydroxy - 3 - methoxyphenyl ) - 1 , 6 - heptadiene - 3 , 5 - dione ) , is extracted from the plant Curcuma longa .
Identification of latency - associated transcripts that map antisense to the ICP4 homolog gene of Marek ' s disease virus .
Changes in c - FLIP ( L ) and cFLIPs levels were observed in some but not all the cell lines studied following glucose deprivation .
The main objective of the study was to determine the mean visual acuity change .
These results suggest that the role of WT1 is different depending on the type of leukemia cell in which it is expressed .
We demonstrate directly that the wild - type 55 - kDa protein is able to block E1A - induced p53 - dependent apoptosis , whereas cells infected by mutant pm490 / 1 / 5A , which contains alanine residues at all three phosphorylation sites , exhibited extensive DNA fragmentation and classic apoptotic cell death .
Multivariate analysis showed that this profile was independently the most significant prognostic factor ( P = 0 . 001 ) .
Targeted antibody - based therapy has been used successfully to treat cancers .
Neurotrophin p75 receptor ( p75NTR ) promotes endothelial cell apoptosis and inhibits angiogenesis : implications for diabetes - induced impaired neovascularization in ischemic limb muscles .
In addition , we showed that paclitaxel downregulated the phosphorylation of Akt in both HeLa and CaSki cells .
Inhibition of tumor vascular development has a direct effect on the growth and progression of the tumor .
Molecular mechanisms of pituitary tumorigenesis were studied using Polymerase chain reaction - single stranded conformational polymorphism with DNA sequencing to identify potential mutations in the ras protooncogenes and the tumor suppressor gene p53 in invasive pituitary adenomas and carcinomas .
Moreover , we suppose that knowledge about heterogeneity between primary and metastatic tumor might help to understand mechanisms of oral cancer progression .
Promotion of tumorigenesis by heterozygous disruption of the beclin 1 autophagy gene .
We show that both substitution of glucose for pyruvate and treatment with 2 - deoxyglucose enhanced apoptosis induced by tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) - alpha , CD95 agonistic antibody , and TNF - related apoptosis - inducing ligand ( TRAIL ) .
BACKGROUND : Roundabouts are axon guidance molecules that have recently been identified to play a role in vascular guidance as well .
A novel method of assessing vascular endothelial function in cancer is via the quantification of circulating endothelial cells ( CEC ) .
Although insulin sensitivity of skeletal muscle was also reduced in patients with lymphoma , the net insulin effect may counteract imbalance between glucose uptake of tumor and muscle , offering a potential means to circumvent at least some metabolic abnormalities found in cancer .
After over 30 years of theorizing , the use of angiogenesis inhibitors as anticancer therapy has finally moved from the realm of research to reality .
The mean final visual acuity in eyes with higher refractive error at baseline ( greater than - 17 diopters ) was significantly better ( P = 0 . 014 ) than that in eyes with lower refractive error ( - 6 to - 10 diopters ) .
CONCLUSIONS : Higher expression of the glucose transporter Glut - 1 by breast cancer cells compared with the healthy breast tissue is common .
Tumor size , serosal invasion , lymph node metastasis , peritoneal dissemination , and TNM classification was significantly correlated with sVAP - 1 level .
Histological analysis demonstrated the presence of blood vessels throughout the soft connective tissue in the distraction gap .
Using wound - healing assay and Boyden chamber assay , GA had potent inhibitory effects on AGS cell migration .
In uremic patients , NOS activity is positively correlated with the duration of PD .
Monoclonal antibody targeted therapy directed against EGF - R or Her - 2 / neu , the use of anti - sense oligonucleotides and oligodeoxynucleotides , and the application of tyrosine kinase and protein C - kinase inhibitors are currently being investigated .
The [ 18F ] FDG uptake in muscle and the whole body glucose use during euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp were compared with those of weight - matched healthy subjects studied under similar circumstances .
HSP27 expression was positive staining ( + ) in 20 ( 50 % ) , weak or negative staining ( - ) in 20 ( 50 % ) of total 40 cases .
It is also expressed by many types of tumour cell and has been associated with metastasis and poor clinical outcome in a number of cancers .
Grossly , these tumors were small and had few feeding vessels .
CONCLUSIONS : MDM2 expression quantified by image analysis was weakly associated with DM .
In addition , the results of the previously tested transketolase like 1 protein ( TKTL1 ) expression were correlated to LDH5 expression .
To prevent adhesions , an experimental study was planned to designate the effects of low molecular weight ( LMW ) heparins and hyperbaric oxygen ( HBO ) therapy both on the formation of adhesions and wound healing .
A long - lived line , RSVT - 2 , was produced and an immortalized subclone , RSVT2 / C , was further derived under a forced crisis regimen .
Inhibition of glucose metabolism sensitizes tumor cells to death receptor - triggered apoptosis through enhancement of death - inducing signaling complex formation and apical procaspase - 8 processing .
The dominant view is that neutrophils display exclusively antitumor properties .
On the basis of earlier findings that ERK5 deficiency in mouse EC results in massive defects in vessel architecture , we focused on the impact of the MEK5 / ERK5 signaling pathway on EC migration .
Role of the fibrinolytic and matrix metalloproteinase systems in development of adipose tissue .
METHODS : This review discusses our current understanding of the mechanisms of TGF - beta signaling , focusing on the roles of TGF - beta in regulation of vascular wall cells and on the regulation of TGF - beta superfamily signals by inhibitory Smads .
Invasive carcinomas without spiculated margins are poorly differentiated tumors .
Growth through the foveal center still can occur , however , and this can be associated with substantial visual loss .
METHODS : Forty patients with recurrent or metastatic advanced cancer , without bone metastases , were randomized into the trial to either receive zoledronic acid or no treatment .
The studies reported here were designed to help elucidate PAI - 1 ' s contribution to the invasive and migratory phenotype .
Endothelial cell migration is an essential step in vasculogenesis and angiogenesis , in which receptor tyrosine kinases play a pivotal role .
The excessive production of ROS can damage protein , lipids , nucleic acids , and matrix components .
Two separate regions of Evi - 1 are responsible for this repression , one of which is the first zinc - finger domain .
In the present study , we investigated the antiangiogenic mechanism of 3 , 6 - di ( 2 , 3 - epoxypropoxy ) xanthone ( EPOX ) , a novel Mcl - 1 targeting drug .
The impact of elevated VEGF expression on the course of chronic myeloid leukaemia is unknown .
In vitro and in vivo studies with losartan , small interfering RNA specific for calcineurin and FK506 demonstrated that Ang II - mediated sFlt - 1 release was via Ang II type 1 receptor activation and calcineurin signaling , respectively .
One such agent , 3 - bromopyruvate ( 3 - BrPA ) , a lactic acid analog , has been shown to inhibit both glycolytic and mitochondrial ATP production in rapidly growing cancers ( Ko et al . , Cancer Letts . , 173 , 83 - 91 , 2001 ) , leave normal cells alone , and eradicate advanced cancers ( 19 of 19 ) in a rodent model ( Ko et al . , Biochem . Biophys . Res . Commun . , 324 , 269 - 275 , 2004 ) .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : We assessed response , toxicity , and biomarkers of angiogenesis to low - dose cyclophosphamide ( 50 mg p . o . o . d . ) and high - dose celecoxib ( 400 mg p . o . b . i . d . ) in adult patients with relapsed or refractory aggressive non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma in a multicenter phase II prospective study .
In this cell line , c - myb is activated by insertional mutagenesis and cannot be effectively down regulated by cytokine .
Because thrombin cleavage of OPN results in substantial enhancement of OPN ' s adhesive properties , and because VPF / VEGF promotes increased microvascular permeability leading to activation of the extrinsic coagulation pathway , we also investigated whether VPF / VEGF facilitates thrombin cleavage of OPN in vivo .
Using vitamin K in perioperation management did not reduce intraoperative blood loss .
Presence of 2 - DG ( 5 mM ) for 2 - 4 h inhibited the glucose usage and lactate production by 70 % in spheroids , while a 35 % reduction was observed in monolayer cells .
These results suggest that overexpression of PLD isozymes may play an important role in neoplastic transformation .
In these breast cancers activated Akt fails to inactivate and re - localize FOXO3a to the cytoplasm , and nuclear - targeted FOXO3a does not induce cell death or cell cycle arrest .
This phenotype was most likely based on decreased focal contact turnover caused by reduced expression of p130Cas , a key player in directed cell migration .
NF - kappaB and IKK as therapeutic targets in cancer .
Together , these results suggest that Tip30 is an intrinsic and negative regulator of MEC proliferation partly through the inhibition of Wisp2 and Igf - 1 expression , and its absence in the mammary gland may predispose MECs to neoplastic transformation .
RASSF1C down - regulates several pro - apoptotic and tumor suppressor genes and up - regulates several growth promoting genes in breast cancer cells .
We verified the predicted ELK - 1 - - > tPA transcriptional regulatory relationship using a luciferase reporter assay .
FOXO3a elicits a pro - apoptotic transcription program and cellular response to human lung carcinogen nicotine - derived nitrosaminoketone ( NNK ) .
VDAs can be divided into biologics , such as ligand - based , and small - molecule agents ; this second group includes small - molecule VDAs like flavonoids , such as 5 , 6 - dimethylxanthenone - 4 - acetic acid ( DMXAA ) , and microtubule - destabilizing agents .
The present study provides direct evidence on the role of cell morphology in EC migration , and will help us to understand the mechanisms of EC migration during angiogenesis and wound healing .
Recruited pericytes were desmin and NG2 positive and predominately alpha - smooth muscle actin negative , indicative of a more mature pericyte phenotype .
METHODOLOGY / PRINCIPAL FINDINGS : Examination of FOXO3a and phosphorylated - Akt ( P - Akt ) expression in breast cancer tissue microarrays showed nuclear FOXO3a was associated with lymph node positivity ( p = 0 . 052 ) , poor prognosis ( p = 0 . 014 ) , and P - Akt expression in invasive ductal carcinoma .
A preponderance of work has been focused on the molecular mechanisms underlying this effect , with the expectation that a mechanistic understanding may lead to novel therapeutic approaches .
CONCLUSION : We present initial results demonstrating anti - inflammatory effects of spironolactone .
There is also an implicit assumption that a mechanistic understanding , although fundamentally reductionist , will nonetheless lead to a more profound teleological understanding of the need for altered metabolism in invasive cancers .
ErbB - 3 ( HER3 ) is a member of the epidermal growth factor receptor family .
However , glycolysis and GLUT - 1 can also be induced independent of HIF - 1alpha by other factors , such as c - Myc and phosphorylated Akt ( pAkt ) .
The contribution of ischemia to arteriogenesis is still unclear , but arteriogenesis clearly can occur in the absence of any significant ischemia .
The activity of type IV collagenase , which enables tumor cells to degrade collagen type IV found in the subendothelial basement membrane , has been correlated with the metastatic potential in several tumor types , including the rat 13762NF mammary adenocarcinoma cell line and its clones .
The disintegrin - like and cysteine - rich domains of ADAM - 9 mediate interactions between melanoma cells and fibroblasts .
These two transcription factors also play an important role in fibroblasts , in extracellular matrix composition , and in cytokine expression .
Notch receptors and ligands ( Jagged and Delta - like ) play a critical role in this process in addition to VEGF .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : In this study all of the major members of the matrix metalloproteinase ( MMP - 1 , MMP - 2 , MMP - 3 , MMP - 7 , MMP - 9 , MMP - 13 , MT1 - MMP and MT2 - MMP ) / tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase ( TIMP - 1 , TIMP - 2 , and TIMP - 3 ) system have been investigated by immunohistochemistry in a series ( n = 90 ) of stage III ( Dukes ' C ) colorectal cancers .
Male double Smad1 Smad5 conditional knockout mice are fertile but demonstrate metastatic testicular tumor development .
Microtubule - binding drugs ( MBD ) are widely used in cancer chemotherapy and also have clinically relevant antiangiogenic and vascular - disrupting properties .
TAMs counts was related to VEGF - C expression in OSCC ( r = 0 . 370 , P < 0 . 05 ) .
Thus TF , in addition to factors downstream of the coagulation cascade and the protease - activated receptor 2 activation system , would be a multifactorial regulator of atherogenesis .
The data support the concept that a positive relationship exists between the density of blood vessels and the formation of bone .
The prognostic value of PE was also evaluated by dividing MDS / AML patients into high and low PE groups using the median PE level of normal controls as the cut - off .
Rat 6 cells are not transformed by treatment with the well - known carcinogens benzo [ a ] pyrene ( BP ) or N - methyl - N - nitro - N ' - nitrosoguanidine ( MNNG ) .
Single cell transplants showed that a common precursor contributes to both the hemopoietic and endothelial lineages , thus demonstrating the presence of an adult hemangioblast .
We have , therefore , examined components of this plasminogen activating system in patients with Non - Small Cell Lung Cancer ( NSCLC ) .
Additionally , knockdown of p600 reduced transformation of cells expressing both BPV - 1 E6 and E7 , as well as E6 alone , suggesting that the ability of E7 to transformed cells is mediated , at least in part , through its ability to bind p600 .
Direct involvement of BRCA1 in the development of breast and ovarian cancer is suggested by the finding that the BRCA1 promoter region CpG island is methylated in a proportion of breast and ovarian cancers .
Fluorescence - activated cell sorter analysis showed that isolated tumor ECs have suppressed levels of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 as compared with ECs from normal mouse tissues .
Trib1 and Evi1 were up - regulated due to retroviral insertions , and coexpression of these genes significantly accelerated the onset of Hoxa9 / Meis1 - induced AML , suggesting that Trib1 and Evi1 are the key collaborators .
We have , therefore , measured the mRNA level of VEGF - B and VEGF - C together with their receptors by RNase protection assay ( RPA ) in 26 normal kidney samples and 45 renal cell cancers .
With a median follow - up of 8 . 4 months , the overall best response rate is 37 % ( 2 complete clinical response / complete clinical response unconfirmed and 9 partial response ) , with 22 % achieving stable disease .
PD98059 , a specific MAPK / ERK kinase ( MEK ) 1 inhibitor , did not affect the induction of ets - 1 mRNA , whereas SB203580 , a specific p38 inhibitor , almost completely abrogated its induction .
Gliomas are the most common primary tumours of the central nervous system , with nearly 15 , 000 diagnosed annually in the United States and a lethality approaching 80 % within the first year of glioblastoma diagnosis .
The transforming growth factor beta ( TGFbeta ) family has critical roles in the regulation of fertility .
Furthermore , inhibition of PARP activity , but not of caspase activity , completely prevented magnolol - induced necrosis , suggesting the notion that it might be caused by depletion of intracellular ATP levels due to PARP activation .
However , the role of IL - 8 in non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma ( NHL ) has not been fully determined .
We show here that constitutively active STAT3 acts as a master regulator of cell metabolism , inducing aerobic glycolysis and down - regulating mitochondrial activity both in primary fibroblasts and in STAT3 - dependent tumour cell lines .
In contrast , ectopic TSP - 1 expression in SiHa cells has little effect on the invasive ability of the NIH3T3 cells .
Nitric oxide synthase inhibition results in synergistic anti - tumour activity with melphalan and tumour necrosis factor alpha - based isolated limb perfusions .
Granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor and interleukin - 3 enhance the incorporation of cytosine arabinoside into the DNA of leukemic blasts and the cytotoxic effect on clonogenic cells from patients with acute myeloid leukemia .
To date , the potential oncogenic properties of Tsg101 have not been examined in vivo owing to the lack of appropriate model systems .
Dysregulation of the signaling mechanisms of the TGF - beta superfamily proteins is associated with clinical diseases such as cancer , fibrotic diseases , and vascular disorders .
None of the test drugs demonstrated significant anti - edema activity .
p53 protein staining was positive in 29 . 7 % .
To test this possibility , CD2 / F ( 1 ) mice were placed on synthetic diets containing 0 , 1 , or 2 % CLA for 6 weeks , before angiogenic challenge by s . c . injection with an angiogenic gel substrate ( Matrigel pellet assay ) .
In contrast , CH - 11 binds to Fas , but is unable to transmit the death signal beyond the plasma membrane suggesting a block at the DISC ( death inducing signaling complex ) .
METHODS : Immunohistochemistry was used to determine the distribution of opticin in normal human CBE , and in hyperplastic and neoplastic CBE lesions .
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of doxorubicin in Hct - 116 human colon carcinoma cells in order to clarify if a time / concentration range for optimal doxorubicin - induced apoptosis exists .
Autotaxin ( ATX ) , an exo - nucleotide pyrophosphatase and phosphodiesterase , was originally isolated as a potent stimulator of tumor cell motility .
Under the conditions used , peroxide - induced conversion of GSH to GSSG could be stoichiometrically reversed by resupplying D - glucose , indicating that no significant lysis or GSSG efflux and / or interchange had taken place .
Consequently , cells were more rigid and show reduced motility .
The average IMVD had statistical difference in histological grading ( P less than 0 . 01 ) , and analysis by one to one , the average IMVD had statistical difference between high and median grading .
WT1 was isolated as a tumor suppressor gene of Wilms tumor .
FGF2 - stimulated microvessel formation was inhibited by sequestration of FGF2 via addition of soluble FGF receptor ( FGFR ) chimera protein or anti - FGF2 antibodies .
Long - term peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) is associated with alterations in peritoneal permeability and loss of ultrafiltration .
Radiation retinopathy is treatable with anti - vascular endothelial growth factor bevacizumab ( Avastin ) .
Pbx1 is a downstream target of Evi - 1 in hematopoietic stem / progenitors and leukemic cells .
Our results leave unexplained the observation that nm23 - H1 allelic deletion correlates with metastatic potential of colon carcinomas .
The results revealed that the metastatic tumors in mouse lung were markedly decreased in a dose - dependent manner and acute lung injury induced by B16F10 melanoma metastasis was diminished by systemic rk - 2 treatment .
Interestingly , significant associations were found between CYR61 expression versus tumor grade , pathology , gender , and age at diagnosis .
Cytotoxic chemotherapy resistance is linked to limited therapeutic options and poor prognosis .
The presence of activating mutations has been demonstrated in the TSH - R gene as well as in the Gs alpha protein gene in thyroid toxic adenoma resulting in the constitutive activation of the cAMP pathway and it has been hypothesised that these genetic alterations may play a causative role in the disease .
Thymidylate synthase ( TS ) and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase ( DPD ) are 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) metabolizing enzymes and are involved in the sensitivity of carcinoma patients to 5 - FU .
We found that orally administered artemisinin inhibited lymph node and lung metastasis and prolonged survival without retarding tumor growth .
The treatment possibilities for ischemia - related vascular disease are limited .
After 1 drug - free week , the second course was administered with 120 mg / body / day of TS - 1 for 4 weeks .
G ( i ) protein , phosphatidylinositol - 3 kinase ( PI3K ) , p38 mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) , cytosolic phospholipase A ( 2 ) and urokinase type plasminogen activator ( uPA ) are required for LPA - induced cells invasion .
Photodynamic therapy with verteporfin for subfoveal choroidal neovascularization secondary to pathologic myopia : long - term study .
Furthermore , interaction of fibroblasts and high invasive melanoma cells with soluble recombinant DC - 9 resulted in enhanced expression of MMP - 1 and MMP - 2 .
PURPOSE : The aim of this study was to investigate the use of D2 - 40 for the detection of lymphovascular invasion ( LVI ) in node positive and negative early breast cancer .
The protein and water component of brain edema were indirectly quantitated .
The proliferative effects of 20 - HETE were markedly inhibited by a VEGF - neutralizing antibody .
Regulation of the resident chromosomal copy of c - myc by c - Myb is involved in myeloid leukemogenesis .
Increased nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 messenger RNA expression and absence of mutations in colon carcinomas of low and high metastatic potential .
An anti - IL - 8 Ab inhibited endothelial cell proliferation induced by cancer cell produced IL - 8 and tumors with low IL - 8 levels exhibited decreased angiogenesis .
Tissue reaction of TET epithelial scaffolds immersed with the medium was evaluated on the chick embryo chorioallantoic membrane .
The effect of von Hippel - Lindau ( VHL ) gene and hypoxia on VEGF - B and VEGF - C expression in the renal carcinoma cell line 786 - 0 transfected with wild - type and mutant VHL was determined by growing cells under 21 % O2 - and 0 . 1 % O2 .
Both tumor - bearing ( TB ) and nontumor bearing ( NTB ) animals were gaining weight prior to study and the tumors were relatively small .
However , re - expression of wt - p53 in EU - 4 cells could restore the doxorubicin - p53 - survivin pathway , resulting in significantly decreased survivin expression and increased apoptosis in these cells after doxorubicin treatment .
METHODS : Using human colon adenocarcinoma tissues ( hereinafter referred to as colon cancer ) and their corresponding non - diseased colon from 114 patients ' biopsies , the expression of SPARC and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) were investigated by immunohistochemistry staining to assessment the relationship between SPARC and VEGF , as well as their prognostic significance in patients .
Mutations in colonic adenomas , and the frequent losses on 4q described in gastric cancer prompt speculation about the role of CDC4 / FBXW7 in gastric carcinogenesis .
Because the intravenously injected lipoplexes migrated within seconds to lungs , we checked whether the effects of immediate contact with serum correlate with lung lipofection efficiency of different DOTAP - based formulations .
The size of these A431 tumors did not differ significantly from those of control A431 tumors raised without F - 2 cells .
Host - derived angiopoietin - 2 affects early stages of tumor development and vessel maturation but is dispensable for later stages of tumor growth .
Injection of indomethacin , a nonselective COX inhibitor , on the day of ovulation and the following day decreased serum levels of progesterone , as did injection of the selective COX - II inhibitor NS - 398 .
Constitutively nuclear FOXO3a localization predicts poor survival and promotes Akt phosphorylation in breast cancer .
Insulin - like growth factor - I receptor - mediated vasculogenesis / angiogenesis in human lung development .
According to these different functions , the role of c - Myc protein in cellular sensitivity to anti - cancer drugs is controversial .
Basic fibroblast growth factor : a missing link between collagen VII , increased collagenase , and squamous cell carcinoma in recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa .
METHODS : Using flow cytometry we evaluated 18 human lung cancer cell lines for the expression of different surface markers on lung cancers suggested to be possible prognostic parameters , including epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) , intercellular adhesion molecule 1 ( ICAM - 1 ) , Fas and CD40 .
This event is independent of fibrin formation .
Angioinvasion , in contrast , was present only in a proportion ( 37 % ) of these lymphomas despite the frequent presence of zonal tumor cell death ( 71 % ) .
The E7 oncoprotein of bovine papillomavirus type 1 ( BPV - 1 ) is required for the full transformation activity of the virus .
The resultant foci contain cells of a markedly altered morphology which produce high levels of p53 .
The interaction of virally derived and endogenous cellular proteins converges in deregulation of cell cycle progression and appears to be critical for the development of cervical cancers .
Heart rate decreased by 32 % for 20 to 40 minutes after injection and was chronically reduced by 10 % , 14 % , and 18 . 5 % after 1 , 2 , and 3 weeks of treatment , respectively .
The relationship between TS and DPD expression and clinicopathological data was analyzed .
In a variety of cell types , the glycolipid - anchored urokinase receptor ( uPAR ) is colocalized pericellularly with components of the plasminogen activation system and endocytosis receptors .
Unexpectedly , cells expressing both Ras and TEL grew as aggregates .
This study suggests that angiogenin may be important in breast cancer progression and that , through its relationship with ER , it may be a target for tamoxifen .
Treatment of stage IV colorectal cancer is based on the type of prior therapy and patient - specific factors .
Given the likely role of the evolutionarily conserved hADA3 in multiple coactivator complexes , inactivation of its function may allow E6 to perturb numerous cellular pathways during HPV oncogenesis .
We found that silencing RASSF1C mRNA in breast cancer cell lines ( MDA - MB231 and T47D ) caused a small but significant decrease in cell proliferation .
This finding may help to elucidate the relationship of WT1 and N - myc in tumorigenesis and renal development .
We investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying NRP1 - mediated angiogenesis by analyzing the association of NRP1 and KDR .
This allowed coexpression of the two proteins and a comparison with the same vector containing either v - erbA or v - myb only .
Vasostatin , the N - terminal domain of calreticulin , is a potent angiogenesis inhibitor .
Alteration of homeobox gene expression by N - ras transformation of PA - 1 human teratocarcinoma cells .
Syndecans are a family of transmembrane heparan sulfate proteoglycans widely expressed in both developing and adult tissues .
When melanin biosynthesis is genetically disrupted in skin of white complexion , we propose that this cycle operates as a promoter of melanocyte proliferation .
This may reflect a transition in blood concentration of each metabolite resulting from the administration of UFT .
Polyphenols are natural antioxidants that are thought to contribute to prevention of cardiovascular disease and malignancy .
There was a significant correlation between loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 expression and upregulation of c - myc .
Hyperforin ( Hyp ) , a polyphenol - derivative of St .
Lesion composition also appears to influence visual outcome with verteporfin use .
The tumor may present with widespread metastases that are unresponsive to aggressive treatment .
We produced a transgenic mouse line that expresses simian virus ( SV40 ) transforming sequences under control of the 1 . 4 kb tyrosinase - related protein 1 ( TRP - 1 ) promoter , targeting expression of T antigen ( Tag ) to the RPE .
These data also suggest that folate deficiency may inhibit colorectal carcinogenesis in chronic UC .
We found that GSE could directly inhibit the kinase activity of purified VEGF receptor 2 , a novel activity of GSE that has not been characterized .
After 2 h incubation at 37 degrees C the drop in the ATP level was lower .
By modulating beta - catenin levels in a mouse model of melanoma that is based on melanocyte - specific Pten loss and Braf ( V600E ) mutation , we demonstrate that beta - catenin is a central mediator of melanoma metastasis to the lymph nodes and lungs .
An alternative and rather obvious strategy to treat ischemia is to activate endogenous angiogenic or arteriogenic pathways to stimulate revascularization of the tissue .
Joint haemorrhage and subsequent haemophilic arthropathy are significant complications in haemophilia .
Since the HTR8 line has a limited in vitro lifespan of 12 - 15 passages , SV40 Tag - transformed cells were selected on the basis of extended lifespan .
Finally , the inhibition of PAK activation enhances the PSMA / filamin A interaction and , thus , boosts PSMA activity .
Down - regulation of collagen XII in transformed mesenchymal cells .
Altogether , these results suggest that the glycolytic pathway may be an important target for therapeutic intervention to sensitize tumor cells to selectively toxic soluble death ligands or death ligand - expressing cells of the immune system by facilitating the activation of initiator caspase - 8 .
Proof of principle of the combined diagnosis / treatment system design for performing dye - enhanced photocoagulation ( DEP ) in the clinical setting and determination of the minimum DEP laser energy needed to close CNV FVs was made in 11 AMD patients requiring treatment of CNV , but for whom other treatment was not appropriate .
In the meantime , it could also greatly reduce the G1 and S , with obviously dose - response relationship .
In addition , comparison of both groups revealed a significantly higher increase in TGF - beta1 , IGF - I , IGFBP - 3 , and hGH in the lengthening group during the distraction period , indicating key regulatory functions in mechanotransduction .
Sequencing of exons 5 through 8 of the p53 gene revealed no mutations , nor were mutations detected in the N - or K - ras protooncogenes in four of the carcinomas and their respective metastatic deposits .
We conditionally activated N - myc in SH - EP neuroblastoma cells subjected to the trophic stress of serum or nutrient deprivation while changing the expression of Bcl - 2 , survivin and FLIP ( L ) , antiapoptotic molecules often overexpressed in poor prognosis neuroblastomas .
In conclusion , this study identifies new functional properties for CD154 , which are potentially relevant for the growth and dissemination of renal carcinoma cells .
Modulation of angiogenesis and progelatinase a by thrombin receptor mimetics and antagonists .
[ Effects of Epstein - Barr virus latent membrane protein 1 ( EBV - LMP1 ) on related factors of metastasis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line CNE1 ] .
The samples were transferred to Kyushu University Hospital ( Beppu , Japan ) where they were analyzed by quantitative real - time reverse transcription - PCR for three epithelial cell markers , carcinoembryonic antigen , cytokeratin - 19 , and cytokeratin - 7 , as well as VEGFR - 1 .
Despite an increase in the activation of these signal transducers , the mammary gland of females expressing exogenous Tsg101 developed normally throughout the reproductive cycle .
Integrin alphavbeta3 requirement for sustained mitogen - activated protein kinase activity during angiogenesis .
Activation of the canonical WNT / TCF pathway is identified here as a determinant of metastasis to brain and bone during lung adenocarcinoma progression .
The bFGF loaded PLGA - heparin microspheres were tested for in vitro release and in vivo angiogenic activity .
Elevated vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) secretion by malignant cells enhanced recruitment of endothelial cells ( EC ) in heterotypic cocultures .
Differential regulation of in vivo angiogenesis by angiotensin II receptors .
Here , we demonstrate in mice pleiotropic involvement of PTHrP in key steps of breast cancer - it influences the initiation and progression of primary tumors and metastases .
This work is again extremely significant for patients worldwide , as Dvorak ' s scientific research is leading his colleagues all over the world to examine how to treat a tumor through its blood supply .
Molecular requirements for epithelial - mesenchymal transition during tumor progression .
2 - methoxyestradiol inhibits hypoxia - inducible factor 1alpha , tumor growth , and angiogenesis and augments paclitaxel efficacy in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
The aptamer - induced dimerization and inactivation of M2 - PK led to a significant decrease in the PK mass - action ratio as well as ATP : ADP ratio in the target cells .
We will demonstrate here that the level of the natural ocular anti - angiogenic agent PEDF is inversely associated with proliferative retinopathy .
The effects of 3 - mercaptopicolinic acid , a potent inhibitor of gluconeogenesis , was also examined on this model .
Comparison between cells revealed different apoptosis kinetics : accumulation of cells in sub - G1 phase and poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase cleavage occurred earlier in LoVo - mycANS .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : Fifteen patients with MEN II A ( aged 4 - 24 years ) who had undergone prophylactic thyroidectomy since 1990 were included in the study .
These data complement work that shows that HPV16 E7 also interacts with p600 , and that this interaction correlates with the ability of HPV16 E7 to transform cells .
However , the expression of nm23 - H1 gene product in the metastatic sites have not been studied in detail .
T - cell lines established from human T - cell leukemia - lymphoma virus associated T - cell neoplasias , in contrast to the T - cell acute lymphocytic leukemia cell lines , expressed both DR antigens and DR alpha mRNA ; the HpaII sites within the BglII fragment of DR alpha DNA of these human T - cell leukemia - lymphoma virus - positive T - cell lines were in all cases at least partially unmethylated .
RESULTS : Mice bearing subcutaneous tumor of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS pretreated Lewis lung carcinoma cells showed > 50 % reduction in primary tumor volume and reduced spontaneous pulmonary metastases .
Nude mice bearing ovarian cancers were treated with hPNAS - 4 - p / liposome .
Interestingly , CDK4 - expressing cells , but not CDK2 - expressing cells , strongly synergize with lack of p27 ( Kip1 ) to generate pituitary carcinomas that appear with shortened latency and are drastically more aggressive than those arising in p27 ( - / - ) mice .
Fluorescein angiograms were reviewed retrospectively to identify juxtafoveal CNV .
The aim of this study was to address the role of pro - and anti - angiogenic molecules in diabetic retinopathy in the aqueous humor of the eye .
Furthermore , the expression levels of NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules , such as fibronectin , beta1 integrin , MMP - 1 , - 2 , - 9 , and - 14 , and VEGF - C , were upregulated in the highly metastatic cells .
N - methyl - N - nitrosourea - induced transformation of rat urothelial cells in vitro is not mediated by activation of ras oncogenes .
Less frequent lesions ( invasive lobular , mucinous , and medullary carcinomas , radial scar ) will be also explained based on radiopathological correlations .
The direct addition of all - trans - RA to conditioned medium had no effect on secreted collagenase activity .
Thus , these data demonstrate cooperative mechanisms for VPF / VEGF regulation of EC migration involving the alphavbeta3 integrin , the alphavbeta3 ligand OPN , and thrombin cleavage of OPN .
VEGF , angiopoietin - 1 and - 2 in bronchial asthma : new molecular targets in airway angiogenesis and microvascular remodeling .
It is regulated by numerous angiogenic factors , one of the most important being vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
Angiogenesis depends on growth factors and vascular cell adhesion events .
No other structural changes in serum were observed for cholesterol - based lipoplexes .
Hypoxia also increased VEGF production by SCC lines , which was inhibited by treatment with SB203580 .
When BB - 94 , a matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor , was added to the culture medium of Ras - expressing cells , it caused a cell aggregation phenotype similar to that caused by TEL expression .
HIF - 2alpha was detected in hypoxic and in well - oxygenized neuroblastoma cells and tissue , presumably reflecting their embryonic features .
The median time to disease progression while on treatment was 24 weeks .
CONCLUSIONS : We have shown that patients with PDR have a lower coronary collateral score than patients without DR .
These studies thus identify p600 as a shared target of the E7 proteins of multiple papillomaviruses .
The PCR products were then subject to XhoI digestion and to DNA sequencing analysis .
We undertook this study to test the hypothesis that Fas - FasL - mediated apoptosis plays a role in IL - 12 - induced tumor regression .
Glucose metabolism and amino acid uptake of the brain tumours correlated significantly ( r = 0 . 71 , P < 0 . 001 ) .
Concomitantly , immunostaining for apoptosis inducing factor ( AIF ) showed a time - dependent translocation from the mitochondria to the nucleus .
Here , in order to characterize the role of the promoter that drives DSCR - 1s expression in mediating inducible expression in vivo and to determine the functional relevance of DSCR - 1s in inflammation , we targeted a DNA construct containing 1 . 7 kb of the human DSCR1s promoter coupled to the lacZ reporter to the hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase ( Hprt ) locus of mice .
Instead of a traditional single - gene readout , global bioinformatics analysis was carried out , which revealed that the glycolysis pathway was the most significantly enriched pathway .
There is only one prior report describing rofecoxib treatment in a single haemophilia patient .
Furthermore , LDH5 correlates positively with the prognostic marker TKTL1 .
There was no effect on overall protein biosynthesis or ER stress .
Effects of doxycycline on in vitro growth , migration , and gelatinase activity of breast carcinoma cells .
Mathematical models and empirical observations are used to define the adaptive advantage of aerobic glycolysis that would explain its remarkable prevalence in human cancers .
Conversion of these sites to alanine residues greatly reduced transforming activity , and although the mutant 55 - kDa protein was found to interact with p53 at normal levels , it was somewhat defective for suppression of p53 transactivation activity .
Since all these cells lack any mRNA for collagen , XII , it seems likely that the synthesis is blocked at the transcriptional level .
Upon HTPB treatment , cell cycle arrest was induced and subsequently led to mitochondria - mediated apoptosis .
These activities provide an explanation for the angiogenic properties of EGF in vivo .
Hyperfibrinogenemia ( > 310 mg / dl ) was independently associated with lymph node ( Odds Ratio ; 2 . 342 , P = 0 . 0032 ) and liver ( Odds Ratio ; 2 . 933 , P = 0 . 0147 ) metastasis , not with peritoneal metastasis in this series .
These RNAs were not detected by Northern ( RNA ) hybridization in productively infected chicken embryo fibroblasts 48 h postinfection ; however , they were apparent 140 h postinfection .
The non - invasive human melanoma cell line , IF6 , which does not express uPA , provided further confirmation of PAI - 1 and uPA ' s role as , upon transfection with uPA , this cell line attained an invasive phenotype , which was again attenuated by MAI - 12 .
Liver tissue spaces , investigated with multiple indicator dilution technique in liver perfusion studies , were unchanged at week 3 after tumor induction .
PEDF is an important negative regulator of angiogenic activity of aqueous humor .
Emerging evidence shows that oncogenes that drive the cancer - promoting signals also drive the altered metabolism .
Multivariate analysis revealed abnormal E - cadherin expression as an independent factor that correlated with submucosal invasion in early gastric cancer .
[ Study on the expression of angiogenesis and spontaneous apoptosis and their relevance in laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma ]
In in vitro study , honokiol inhibited VEGF - D - induced survival , proliferation and tube - formation of both human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) and lymphatic vascular endothelial cells ( HLECs ) .
Tumor endothelial cell targeted cyclic RGD - modified heparin derivative : inhibition of angiogenesis and tumor growth .
Controlling lymph node metastasis is currently a key issue in cancer therapy .
Increased MP activity has been correlated with the metastatic potential of many cancers , including breast cancer .
The aim of the present study was to clarify how expression of p53 protein participates in angiogenesis , and whether the coexpression of VEGF and p53 protein has a significance for angiogenesis and the clinicopathological features in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) .
Requirement of estrogen receptor expression and function for [ 12Val ] K - Ras - mediated NIH3T3 cell transformation .
It was recently reported for its anticancer effect on several types of cancer cells in vitro however , the molecular mechanisms of this anticancer effect are not fully understood .
Although one mutant allele was detected in revertant EMS - 1 - 19 , overexpression of this mutant allele failed to inhibit v - fos induced cell transformation .
This study establishes the potential of metabolic targeting as a broader means to kill and sensitize myeloma and identifies a compound that can achieve this goal .
Our results showed that HeLa cells demonstrated the highest sensitivity to paclitaxel , whereas CaSki cells showed the lowest .
We have detected transforming activity by a tumorigenicity assay using NIH3T3 cells transfected with DNA from a chronic myeloproliferative disorder patient .
TGFbeta1 was initially identified in culture media from transformed cells as part of a factor that could produce a transformed phenotype in a nontransformed cell line .
The review is focused on the participation of polymorphonuclear granulocytes ( neutrophils ) in development and spreading of a tumor .
The internal convex surface of the caruncles of non - pregnant does was covered with capillary meshes of regular diameter and form , without crypts .
The EGFR - GEP100 - Arf6 - AMAP1 signaling pathway specific to breast cancer invasion and metastasis .
CONCLUSIONS : The data suggest that PI3K / Akt - NF - kappaB axis may promote PC bone metastasis in part by regulating transcription and activation of the BMP - 2 - Smad signaling cascade in osteotropic PC cells .
Prior to the appearances of frank neoplasms , volumetric changes in DMBA only and radiation only groups were similar , while volume changes in DMBA + radiation groups increased slowly to a peak later than in other groups and then declined steadily to levels similar to the radiation only group .
A reduction in alpha - catenin expression and p53 overexpression correlated to lymph node metastases , respectively .
In an effort to decipher the mechanism by which HGF up - regulates its receptor , we found that c - Met is a direct transcriptional target of Mitf .
METHODS : Thirty - six New Zealand white rabbits were evaluated in this study .
Interestingly , we found that K5CDK4 mice show a decreased number of pituitary stem cells , even though CDK4 is not expressed in the stem cells but in transit - amplifying ( TA ) - like cells .
BACKGROUND : Aberrant angiogenesis is a landmark feature in cancer , which is important for proliferation , growth and metastasis , and is mediated by various pro - angiogenic factors .
Studies were therefore performed with PECAM - 1 - null mice to further define the involvement of PECAM - 1 in blood vessel formation .
A perifusion system was designed in order to study glucose and glutamine metabolism by freshly harvested Ehrlich ascites tumour cells in steady state conditions .
Moreover , we showed that combination of E1A gene therapy and SAHA showed high therapeutic efficacy with low toxicity in vivo ovarian and breast xenograft models .
p53 is a protein with many talents .
The increased expressions of these proteins in Galpha ( 12 ) QL cells were validated by immunoblot analysis .
BACKGROUND : Recent data suggest that anti - tumor activities of interleukin - 12 ( IL - 12 ) involve the induction of apoptosis .
Here we have demonstrated that mechanical strain - dependent induction of the CCN1 gene involves signaling cascades through RhoA - mediated actin remodeling and the p38 stress - activated protein kinase ( SAPK ) .
TUNEL assay and microvessel density was assessed to evaluate apoptosis and angiogenesis .
The genes regulated by Nrf2 are very important for cellular protection of the genome from xenobiotic and oxidative stresses and , consequently , for preventing carcinogenesis .
The 5T4 antigen is defined by a monoclonal antibody ( MAb ) specific for human trophoblast .
A vascular permeability enhancement ( VPE ) assay was performed using guinea pigs to ascertain whether supernatant from cultures of Ve - and OMP - stimulated HGF enhance vascular permeability in vivo .
Low - level X - radiation effects on functional vascular changes in Syrian hamster cheek pouch epithelium during hydrocarbon carcinogenesis .
These findings suggest that poorly vascularized neuroblastomas become immature and maintain a more aggressive phenotype , which possibly could involve a sustained stabilization and activation of HIF - 2alpha .
Latency was markedly increased and occurrence decreased in the p190 del C lines as compared with nonmutated p190 BCR / ABL transgenics .
p53 up - regulation and p53 - mediated proliferation arrest and apoptosis were substantiated using immunohistochemistry , with activation of both the intrinsic and the extrinsic apoptotic pathways .
MTSS1 ( metastasis suppressor - 1 ) was first identified as a metastasis suppressor missing in metastatic bladder carcinoma cell lines .
Here we studied the effects of cell morphology on the migration of bovine aortic ECs by culturing cells on micropatterned strips of collagen matrix ( 60 - , 30 - , and 15 - microm wide ) .
FGFR1 and FGFR2 were present on explants .
We have used a quantitative assay in vitro to demonstrate that mast cells release a factor that significantly increases bovine capillary endothelial cell migration .
This was confirmed with chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments of the human c - Met promoter , as well as by the ability of adenovirally expressed Mitf to modulate endogenous c - Met protein levels in melanocytes .
We have identified several mechanisms by which the angiogenic cytokine vascular permeability factor / vascular endothelial growth factor ( VPF / VEGF ) likely regulates endothelial cells ( EC ) migration .
These findings demonstrate that Src can activate STAT signaling pathways and raise the possibility that Stat3 contributes to oncogenesis by Src .
Angiotensin II ( Ang II ) is a potent vasoconstrictor that increases concomitant with sFlt - 1 during pregnancy .
These results suggest that desensitization of certain agonist - induced inositol phospholipid responses in ras - transformed cells is a consequence of increased cell proliferation and associated amplification in C - kinase activity and is an indirect consequence of transformation by ras .
Alpha - melanocyte - stimulating hormone modulates activation of NF - kappa B and AP - 1 and secretion of interleukin - 8 in human dermal fibroblasts .
Hemostasis and mechanism of action of selective antimetastatic drugs in mice bearing Lewis lung carcinoma .
RESULTS : Robo1 and Robo4 knockdown cells display distinct activity in endothelial cell migration assay .
From these results , it was suggested that PPARgamma activation might suppress COX - 2 expression via the nuclear factor - kappaB pathway in the ovarian carcinoma cells and that low expression of PPARgamma and high expression of COX - 2 might be involved in carcinogenesis and progression of ovarian tumours .
In 20 RCC patients , serum samples were obtained separately from the bilateral renal veins .
CONCLUSION : These results demonstrated that cRGD - modified heparin derivative enhanced anti - angiotherapeutic effects against solid tumor , and therefore , it could be applied to treat various cancers and angiogenic diseases as a potent angiogenesis inhibitor .
Molecular characterization of angiogenic properties of human oral squamous cell carcinoma cells .
To investigate the endothelial proliferation and the potential signaling pathways affected by PTEN methylation , proliferating cell nuclear antigen as well as phosphor - Akt and phosphor - Erk1 , 2 were detected by immunofluorescence and Western blot , respectively , in CCM specimens .
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES : Aquaporins ( AQPs ) play important roles in water and glycerol transport .
The results of LDH5 expression were correlated to clinico - pathological data as well as to patient ' s survival .
Low concentrations of SN - 38 , but not 5 - FU and L - OHP , preferentially inhibited endothelial cell proliferation .
Although we cannot reveal any statistical difference between these 2 substances considering osteoinductive potential , PRP group has demonstrated superior results compared with fibrin glue group .
RESULTS : The bone grafts were found revascularization in 3 days after surgery in the test group , whereas at 2 weeks in the control group .
In conclusion , CXCR4 expression is associated with gastric cancer cell migration in vitro , and strong expression of CXCR4 by gastric cancer cells is significantly associated with lymphatic metastasis in patients with gastric cancer , suggesting that CXCR4 plays an important role during gastric cancer progression .
Patients with tumors demonstrating concurrent methylation of more than half of their genes demonstrated significantly poorer survival and earlier recurrence .
Moreover , we demonstrate that this inflammation - driven netrin - 1 up - regulation is causal for colorectal cancer development as interference with netrin - 1 autocrine loop in a mouse model for ulcerative colitis - associated colorectal cancer , while showing no effect on inflammation , inhibits colorectal cancer progression .
Differential sensitivity to these agents implies that more than one endothelial cell type must be used in proliferation assays to screen for novel anti - angiogenic compounds .
It is normally produced in bone , teeth , kidney and epithelial lining tissues and is found in plasma and breast milk .
Our results indicate that HCMV elevates cellular p53 levels on the order of 10 - to 20 - fold in infected fibroblasts .
RESULTS : VEGF - C expression was higher in lymphatic metastasis group ( PI = 12 . 169 + / - 2 . 778 ) than in no - metastasis group ( PI = 8 . 498 + / - 2 . 674 , P < 0 . 05 ) .
The in vitro expression of FAK and its level of phosphorylation appear to be related to several physiological phenomena , including cell spreading , cell differentiation , cell locomotion and cell death .
Lack of IL - 17F did not reverse the splenomegaly but partially restored thymic atrophy , suggesting a local effect of IL - 17F in the intestine .
The current study was conducted to characterize the effect of insulin on retinal VEGF gene expression in vitro and in vivo .
Two of the mutations included a G to C substitution at codon 12 , and a G to A substitution at codon 18 , resulting in a glycine to arginine , and an alanine to threonine change at these amino acids , respectively .
Most Group I compounds except doxorubicin ( which induced DNA fragmentation less effectively than others ) activated caspase 3 more efficiently than Group II compounds .
The issue is complicated because both disorders have a propensity for MDS or AML as part of their natural history .
Furthermore , we demonstrate that increased vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) - A secretion by tumor cells , as well as activation of VEGF receptor - 2 in bone marrow cells does not alter the mobilization and incorporation of marrow - derived endothelial progenitors into tumor vasculature .
TSP - 1 inhibits angiogenesis by inhibiting endothelial cell migration and proliferation and by inducing apoptosis .
Remarkably , final sigma mRNA was undetectable in 45 of 48 primary breast carcinomas .
Over - expression of either rho gene was sufficient to confer anchorage - and serum - independent growth .
We show that restoration of FOXO3a in FOXO3a - deficient LAC cells increases sensitivity to apoptosis caused by a DNA - damaging intermediate of NNK .
Eight randomly assigned 4 x 4 - cm2 pieces of two different meshes were fixed in the preperitoneal space with a centrally placed single suture .
Hypermethylation and loss of final sigma expression are the most consistent molecular alterations in breast cancer identified so far .
Multi - step neoplastic transformation of normal human fibroblasts by Co - 60 gamma rays and Ha - ras oncogenes .
The treatment of ovarian cancer cells with luteinizing hormone , follicle - stimulating hormone , and estrogen induced a significant upregulation of SEMA3B , whereas SEMA3F was upregulated only by estrogen .
These cells were negative for Hep par - 1 , carcinoembryonic antigen , neural cell adhesion molecule , CD34 , CD31 and HMB45 .
The concept of the neurovascular unit emphasizes that common signals and substrates underlie the physiology and pathophysiology of neuronal and endothelial compartments in brain .
Knockdown of either Wisp2 or Igf - 1 using short interfering RNA dramatically inhibited proliferation of Tip30 ( - / - ) cells .
CONCLUSIONS : The results have shown that bisphosphonates as adjuvant treatment might be useful for the prevention of bone metastases ; however , there is need for blinded randomized data before such an approach would be confirmed .
The rats were divided into 4 groups .
To understand the molecular mechanisms underlying compound - induced hemangiosarcomas in mice , and therefore , their human relevance , a systems biology approach was undertaken using transcriptomics and Causal Network Modeling from mice treated with 2 - butoxyethanol ( 2 - BE ) .
Formation of new bone during vertical distraction osteogenesis of the human mandible is related to the presence of blood vessels .
OSCC sublines were established from a GFP - expressing parental cell line , GSAS , and designated GSAS / N3 and N5 according to the in vivo passage number after cervical lymph node metastasis by a serial orthotopic transplantation model .
Antibodies developed to human endosialin were used to investigate endosialin expression and function in human prenatal brain pericytes and pericytes residing in tumors .
Increased NOS activity is mediated solely by Ca ( 2 + ) - dependent NOS and , as shown by immunoblotting , an upregulation of endothelial NOS .
The last 7 years have seen over seven times as many publications indexed by Medline dealing with pomegranate and Punica granatum than in all the years preceding them .
Microvascular corrosion casts of caruncles from non - pregnant and pregnant doe goats at 4 , 7 , 10 , 13 , 16 , and 18 weeks were examined with scanning electron microscopy .
Bovine papillomavirus E7 transformation function correlates with cellular p600 protein binding .
In examining the metabolic basis for selenoperoxidase - dependent resistance , we found that glucose - replete Se ( - ) cells reduce t - BuOOH to t - butanol far more slowly than Se ( + ) cells , the ratio of the first - order rate constants approximating that of the GPX activities ( L1210 cells ) or PHGPX activities ( K562 cells ) .
The rationale for therapeutic angiogenesis is discussed , together with the most recent results from randomised trials in patients with peripheral arterial disease .
Furthermore , it was showed that GSH depletion induced by MOG rendered some leukemia cell lines more sensitive to arsenic trioxide ( As2O3 ) , doxorubicin or cisplatin .
The data indicate that endosialin is strongly expressed by pericytes during periods of active angiogenesis during embryonic and tumor development .
Akt knockdown and an mTOR inhibitor revealed the importance of the Akt / mTOR pathway in the postirradiation accumulation of HIF - 1alpha .
These data provide evidence that adenosine could modulate the migration of colon cancer cells by an HIF - 1alpha / VEGF / IL - 8 - dependent mechanism and that caffeine has the potential to inhibit colon cancer cell growth .
The only CD8 + CD56 + postthymic T - cell lymphoma also expressed all three cytolytic markers , two CD8 - ALCL expressed TIA1 ; other postthymic T - cell , T - lymphoblastic , and B - cell lymphomas were consistently negative .
They were consistent with the concept of the existence of 2 pools of both lactate and pyruvate , of which 1 pool was closely connected with exogenous lactate and oxidative metabolism , and the other pool was closely related to glycolysis and disconnected from oxidative metabolism .
In contrast , we have previously reported that total nm23 messenger RNA ( mRNA ) expression is increased to similar levels in colon tumors of both high and low metastatic potential .
TTF - 1 staining is very reliable in discerning whether a brain metastasis has arisen from a pulmonary or nonpulmonary site , particularly when dealing with adenocarcinomas and large - cell carcinomas .
Involved introns contain homology to recombination signal sequence ( RSS ) heptamers present in the V ( D ) J region of the T lymphocyte receptor gene .
In the current investigation , we show that p - XSC , but not an equivalent dose of SM , alters molecular targets and induces apoptosis in androgen - responsive LNCaP and androgen - independent LNCaP C4 - 2 human prostate cancer cells .
Age - related impaired wound healing leads to substantial morbidity and mortality along with a large financial burden to health services .
HTPB disrupted F - actin dynamics via downregulating RhoA activity .
[ Retinochoroidopathy after intravitreal anti - VEGF treatment ]
The ' angiostatic ' steroids 17 hydroxyprogesterone and epicortisol were tested because of their lack of glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid effects and their structural similarity to glucocorticoids .
Although PTHrP is frequently expressed by breast tumors and other solid cancers , its effects on tumor progression are unclear .
It is possible that the suppressive effect of GA on MMP - 2 / 9 might involve the inhibition of NF - kappaB activity .
However , the underlying mechanism is poorly understood .
Finally , sections of the control and experimental flaps were analyzed histologically .
This review condenses the latest findings on the signaling pathways that are activated and / or regulated by molecules generated from Hedgehog signaling in cancer and cites promising clinical interventions .
Blockade of PAF - R by WEB - 2170 , a PAF - R antagonist , abolished the CD154 - dependent motility , indicating a role for PAF synthesized after CD154 stimulation in renal carcinoma cell motility .
317615 x 2HCl is a promising new antiangiogenic agent that is in early phase clinical testing .
In experimental RG1 2 . 2 glioma of rat brain , local blood flow , glucose utilization , protein synthesis , glucose and ATP content were measured by means of triple tracer autoradiography and bioluminescence technique , respectively , to determine hemodynamic and metabolic thresholds for local tumor energy failure .
At present , the percentage of such a modification is low , unless referred to selected series of tumours .
The sequential activation of caspase - 9 and caspase - 3 / - 7 and the cleavage of poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase ( PARP ) were observed behind those mitochondrial events .
Key players in this process are the hypoxia - inducible factors ( HIF - 1alpha to 3alpha ) .
Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) transforms B lymphocytes through the expression of the latent viral proteins EBNA and latent membrane protein ( LMP ) .
Cell proliferation in each sample was assessed by using the Ki - 67 proliferation marker .
CONCLUSIONS : ITCs circulate even in early stages of disease .
FAS - 1377 G / A polymorphism and the risk of lymph node metastasis in cervical cancer .
In conclusion , the level of nm23 - H1 gene product expression does not significantly reveal prognostic value in node - positive lung cancers .
We hypothesized that an additional direct consequence of FH deficiency is the establishment of a biosynthetic milieu .
Domain 5 of cleaved high molecular weight kininogen inhibits endothelial cell migration through Akt .
Thus , nuclear targeting of a specific 45 - kDa isoform of clusterin appeared to be an early and specific molecular signal triggering anoikis - death .
Neurosensorial retinal detachment decreased in 80 % of cases .
OBJECTIVE : The aim of this study was the follow - up of VEGF expression during the course of CML .
The effect of ATX secretion on in vitro cell motility was variable .
Single - nucleotide polymorphisms of the FAS - 1377G / A , FAS - 670A / G , and FASL - 844T / C genes may alter transcriptional activity of these genes .
The 3 - year disease - free survival ( DFS ) and overall survival ( OS ) of patients with tumors expressing different levels of COUP - TFII were evaluated by the Kaplan - Meier method .
p24 family type 1 transmembrane proteins are required for insulin biosynthesis and secretion in pancreatic beta - cells .
A pair of primers bracketing the XhoI site were designed to synthesize the EBV DNA fragment from nucleotides 169 , 081 - 169 , 577 by using the polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) method .
Thus , ATX appears to augment cellular characteristics necessary for tumor aggressiveness .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : The tissues were stained with monoclonal antibodies to EGFR , TGF - alpha and Ki - 67 .
Outcomes measures included transcutaneous blood gas levels , histology , total RNA content and analysis of alpha2 ( I ) collagen ( COL - I ) , type IV collagen ( COL - IV ) , alpha1 ( V ) collagen ( COL - V ) , and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression using real - time quantitative PCR .
Transcriptional and post - translation regulation of the Tie1 receptor by fluid shear stress changes in vascular endothelial cells .
Furthermore , GK rats were treated s . c twice daily with IL - 1Ra ( Kineret , Amgen , 100 mg / kg / day ) or saline , from 4 weeks of age onwards ( onset of diabetes ) .
The remaining wild - type Men1 allele was lost in most tumors from Men1 ( + / - ) mice but was retained in most tumors from p18 ( - / - ) ; Men1 ( + / - ) mice .
AKT2 is a downstream target of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 ( Grm1 ) .
Here we show that exponentially growing NIH 3T3 fibroblasts recently transformed by Ha - ras or Ki - ras possess elevated DG concentrations without significant alterations in the levels of other polyphosphoinositide metabolites .
METHODS : One hundred and one specimens obtained from surgery were studied by immunohistochemistry using monoclonal anti - E - cadherin , anti - alpha - catenin and anti - p53 antibodies .
METHODS AND RESULTS : Quiescent VEGFR2 displays endosomal localization and colocalization with the Rab5a GTPase , an early endosome fusion regulator .
The expression of VEGF and p53 protein in these SCC was examined immunohistochemically .
Decreased expression of TGF - beta RII in CML cells and leukemia cell lines raises the possibility that altered expression of the receptor may play a role in the initiation and / or maintenance of the disease state .
TEL is a member of the ETS family of transcription factors that interacts with the mSin3 and SMRT corepressors to regulate transcription .
An earlier study showed that thrombospondin is expressed in benign prostatic hyperplasia ( BPH ) and high - grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia ( PIN ) but is absent in prostate cancer .
Therefore , genetic instability plays an important role in inflammation - associated cancers .
In the orthotopic xenograft model , rAAV2 / 5 - VAS suppressed metastasis of A549 tumors to mediastinal lymph nodes and contralateral lung .
In order to understand the underlying mechanism by which TSC phenolic fraction potentiates BPDE - induced tumorigenicity , we examined its effect on the activation of two transcription factors AP - 1 and NF - kappaB which are known to be influenced by established tumor promoter TPA .
Angiogenesis , new blood vessel formation , is a multistep process , precisely regulated by pro - angiogenic cytokines , which stimulate endothelial cells to migrate , proliferate and differentiate to form new capillary microvessels .
p - XSC also decreases Akt phosphorylation as well as Akt - specific phosphorylation of the AR .
Implications for a possible role of tumor cell / host TGF - beta interactions in human breast cancer progression .
Glucocorticoid receptor - induced MAPK phosphatase - 1 ( MPK - 1 ) expression inhibits paclitaxel - associated MAPK activation and contributes to breast cancer cell survival .
The low apoptosis phenotype is dominant in Runx2 / MYC tumors , indicating that Runx2 confers a potent survival advantage to MYC - expressing tumor cells .
Terminal transferase dUTP end - labeling assay and TEM studies of anti - IGF - IR - treated lungs demonstrated numerous apoptotic mesenchymal cells .
Levels of expression of CYR61 and CTGF are prognostic for tumor progression and survival of individuals with gliomas .
[ Clinical significance of interleukin - 6 ( IL - 6 ) as a prognostic factor of cancer disease ]
In contrast VEGF - B was not regulated by VHL despite clear up - regulation in vivo .
Furthermore , our data indicate that loss of wt - p53 function in tumor cells may contribute to up - regulation of survivin and resistance to DNA - damaging agents .
30 and 50 micrograms / ml of U - 995 , when added to TNF alpha - induced angiogenesis caused discontinuous and disrupted blood vessels .
The TGF - beta type II receptor in chronic myeloid leukemia : analysis of microsatellite regions and gene expression .
The neoplastic transformation of cultured rat liver epithelial cells by various means has consistently been associated with the development of resistance to the mito - inhibitory effect of transforming growth factor beta ( TGF - beta ) , suggesting that such phenotype plays a mechanistic role during the transformation of these cells .
Large lesions with relatively good visual acuity ( 20 / 50 or better ) may be at particular risk for marked vision loss following verteporfin administration .
The high - oncogenic - risk HPV types associated with invasive cervical cancer produce two oncoproteins , designated E6 and E7 , which interact with endogenous cell cycle regulatory proteins , including p53 and Rb .
siRNA - mediated knockdown of the ATG7 gene also sensitized hepatoma cells to sorafenib .
We have reported recently that the long terminal repeat ( LTR ) of Moloney murine leukemia virus encodes a trans activator which induces transcription and expression of class I major histocompatibility complex genes and certain cytokine genes .
Coexpression of keratin and vimentin was found in approximately 20 % of the tumors regardless of menopausal status .
Antiangiogenic properties have been recently reported in nicked beta2GPI as well as in intact beta2GPI at higher concentrations .
METHODS : LOH of epigenetic microsatellites of PTEN ( D10S541 , D10S583 and D10S1687 ) in advanced gastric cancer was detected by PCR - SSCP .
These findings suggest that c - Myc and / or HIF - 1alpha activities are both involved in the regulation of glycolysis in breast cancers .
Although 5 - FU is often used for the treatment of oral carcinoma , there has not been any investigation into the expression of these enzymes in metastatic lymph nodes or of their roles in the effectiveness of 5 - FU in treating lymph node - metastatic cancer .
[ mRNA expression of metastasis - suppressor gene nm23 in carcinoma of buccal mucosa . II . Quantitative reverse transcription PCR amplification ] .
Histological examination revealed cystic or angiomatoid spaces of various sizes lined by cuboidal , low - columnar , or flattened epithelioid cells with vacuolated cytoplasm and round to oval nuclei .
Regulation of the Warburg effect in early - passage breast cancer cells .
The endothelial cell line expressing vGPCR was rendered sensitive to treatment with the nucleoside analogue ganciclovir by using a bicistronic construct coexpressing the herpes simplex virus 1 thymidine kinase .
We will also discuss several patents regarding inhibitors of VEGF action in the present review .
Prospective and retrospective case - controlled experimental designs are not suitable for testing the above hypothesis .
In all cases , the somatostatin receptors were localized in veins , particularly in the smooth - muscle cell layer .
We identified dynein light chain 1 ( DLC1 ) as a physiologic substrate of p21 - activated kinase 1 ( Pak1 ) .
In this study , we have investigated gene knockdown analysis of endothelial Robos , in particular roundabout 4 ( robo4 ) , the predominant Robo in endothelial cells using small interfering RNA technology in vitro .
In addition , PPARgamma protein was not detected in all of the eight carcinomas in which COX - 2 protein was detected , suggesting that expression of PPARgamma and COX - 2 was in a reciprocal relationship .
CONCLUSIONS : Insulin increases VEGF mRNA and secreted protein levels in RPE cells through enhanced transcription of the VEGF gene .
In the pituitary and pancreatic islets , phosphorylation of the retinoblastoma ( Rb ) protein at both CDK2 and CDK4 / 6 sites was increased in p18 ( - / - ) and Men1 ( + / - ) cells and was further increased in p18 ( - / - ) ; Men1 ( + / - ) cells .
A total of 28 patients between 3 and 37 years of age were treated for a total of 42 courses of rofecoxib treatment .
These results define a novel function of Evi - 1 as a repressor of signaling components of TGF - beta .
We found that induction of one splicing variant of WT1 [ WT1 - 17AA ( + ) - KTS ( - ) ] in M1 cells induces cell cycle arrest and apoptotic cell death .
Expression of wild - type VASP induces marked membrane ruffling and formation of prominent stress fibers in bovine aortic endothelial cells .
Levels of pro - angiogenic vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and angiogenic inhibitor pigment epithelium - derived factor ( PEDF ) were determined .
In addition to altering metastasis , beta - catenin levels control tumor differentiation and regulate both MAPK / Erk and PI3K / Akt signaling .
Thyrotropin receptor : a role for thyroid tumourigenesis ?
As in prior studies , there were significant vascular volume differences between DMBA and DMBA + radiation groups of tumor - bearing cheek pouches .
When goldfish erythrophores isolated from the skin by tissue digestion and centrifugation in a Percoll density gradient were transfected in a monolayer - culture with v - Ha - ras or v - src oncogene either singly or in combination with v - myc by means of calcium phosphate - DNA co - precipitation , there appeared a certain number of transformants manifesting a chromatoblast - like profile and tumorous phenotypes as seen in the capability for unlimited growth , and piling - up in a monolayer - culture or colony formation in semi - solid soft agar .
HKa and D5 reduce the localization of paxillin to the focal adhesions after S1P and VEGF stimulation .
There was no significant difference of intraoperative blood loss between patients with vitamin K , ( 748 . 27 + / - 448 . 51 ) ml , and those without vitamin K , ( 767 . 31 + / - 547 . 89 ) ml ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
Both levels of dietary CLA showed similar effects , with the number of RBC - containing vessels per 20x field decreased to a third of that seen in control .
In the colon carcinoma experiment , mean permeability and perfusion decreased by 51 % ( from 5 . 2 + / - 1 . 1 to 2 . 5 + / - 0 . 8 ml / 100 ml ) and 59 % ( from 0 . 00165 + / - 5 . 1 to 0 . 0067 + / - 4 . 8 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) of tissue ) , respectively , in all animals after antiangiogenic drug administration .
Here we demonstrate that bone marrow - derived haematopoietic progenitor cells that express vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 1 ( VEGFR1 ; also known as Flt1 ) home to tumour - specific pre - metastatic sites and form cellular clusters before the arrival of tumour cells .
These data suggest that VEGF plays a key role in the angiogenic response that occurs with chronic bradycardia .
The expression level of EphA2 had a statistically significant relationship with liver metastasis , lymphatic vessel invasion and clinical stage ( p = 0 . 0477 , 0 . 0316 and 0 . 0467 , respectively ) .
In addition , expression of the constitutively active form of RhoA results in TSH - independent proliferation and anchorage - independent growth and induces tumors when inoculated in nude mice .
No difference in relapse - free ( p = 0 . 26 ) or overall ( p = 0 . 63 ) survival was observed in patients stratified by angiogenin expression .
The activation of Na + transport is due to the exchange of protons formed via glucose conversion into lactate for Na + , i . e . , to the stimulation of the Na + / H + - antiport .
We revealed that expression of p53 proteins with amino - acid substitutions at codons 175 ( R175H ) , 248 ( R248W ) , and 273 ( R273H ) , representing the hot - spots of mutations in various human tumors , increased the number of vessels in HCT116 human colon carcinoma xenografts and , as a result , accelerated their growth .
Aberrant angiogenesis leads to a variety of diseases , such as ischemia and cancer .
These two enzymes were also found to have specificity for gelatin .
The median overall survival was 27 weeks .
These mice were then treated with ganciclovir to specifically target only the vGPCR - expressing cells .
Cediranib ( RECENTIN ; AZD2171 ) is an inhibitor of VEGF signaling that has been shown in experimental models to prevent VEGF - A - induced angiogenesis and primary tumor growth , yet the effects of cediranib on VEGF receptor ( VEGFR ) - 3 - mediated endothelial cell function and lymphangiogenesis are unknown .
Enhanced DNA - binding activity of a Stat3 - related protein in cells transformed by the Src oncoprotein .
hTERT activity is associated with nodal metastases and cellular proliferation .
METHODS : Gene silencing and over - expression techniques were used to modulate RASSF1C expression in human breast cancer cells .
Genotypes of 155 patients with cervical cancer and 160 healthy control subjects were determined using polymerase chain reaction - based restriction fragment length polymorphism ( PCR - RFLP ) .
Interestingly , both constitutively active and kinase - inactive Hck interact with and are targeted for degradation by Cbl .
Recombinant human prothrombin kringle - 2 inhibits B16F10 melanoma metastasis through inhibition of neovascularization and reduction of matrix metalloproteinase expression .
Topo I expression in paired primary lymph node metastases were studied for concordance .
When transplanted in nude mice , tumors formed by the v - Src transformed SWAP - 70 ( - / - ) MEFs were smaller than those formed by cells expressing exogenous SWAP - 70 .
Transduction of BMSVTs with hTERT resulted in immortalization of 4 out of 4 cultures .
But little is known about the characteristics of young donor - derived MSCs transplanted to old patients with AMI .
However , there was no difference in expression of TSP - 2 and CD36 mRNA in these samples .
Both basal ( 2 . 3 + / - 0 . 2 mumol / 100 g / minute , P = 0 . 061 ) and insulin - stimulated ( 8 . 5 + / - 1 . 9 mumol / 100 g / minute , P = 0 . 055 ) skeletal arm muscle glucose uptake rates were higher in control subjects than in patients .
A uniform left ventricular injury was produced in female rats using a cryoprobe .
Both the erbA IRES and the erbA / myb IRES virus constructs transformed erythroid cells after infection of bone marrow or blastoderm cultures .
GTPase - deficient , constitutively activated mutant of Galpha ( 12 ) ( Galpha ( 12 ) Q229L or Galpha ( 12 ) QL ) has been previously shown to induce oncogenic transformation of NIH3T3 cells promoting serum - and anchorage - independent growth .
Consistent with these findings is the induction under hypoxic conditions of the HIF - 1 protein .
Frequent coffee consumption has been associated with a reduced risk of colorectal cancer in a number of case - control studies .
CONCLUSIONS : This study has identified that the MMP / TIMP profile is an independent indicator of poor prognosis in colorectal cancer .
Induction of gelatinases ( matrix metalloproteinase 2 and 9 ) , the serine protease tissue plasminogen activator and plasmin by DCN transfection in MCE cells leads to extracellular proteolysis and to release of matrix - bound VEGF and activation of angiogenesis .
Fas ( APO - 1 / CD95 ) is a type I membrane protein that is capable of initiating an apoptosis signaling pathway when bound to its ligand ( FasL ) .
The migration of vascular endothelial cells ( ECs ) plays an important role in vascular remodeling .
Notch signaling regulates intestinal development , homeostasis and tumorigenesis , but its precise downstream mechanism remains largely unknown .
Levels of RNA for tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases ( TIMP - 1 , TIMP - 2 ) were relatively constant , suggesting independent regulation of type IV collagenases and their inhibitors .
In this review , the role of TSH - R gene alterations in benign and malignant thyroid neoplasia is examined .
Glut - 2 was expressed in all of the tumors , but the intensity of staining was not consistently stronger than that seen in healthy breast .
The p53 protein suppresses tumorigenesis by initiating cellular functions such as cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in response to DNA damage .
The leukemia cell lines K562 and HL - 60 had no detectable TGF - beta RII mRNA .
Immunohistochemistry revealed that the Hedgehog receptor Patched was localized to the tumor stroma and that B16F0 cells expressed Shh peptide .
In this study , we investigated the effect of artemisinin on tumor growth , lymphangiogenesis , metastasis and survival in mouse Lewis lung carcinoma ( LLC ) models .
The glucose turnover rate was significantly greater in TB compared with NTB animals , as was the rate of glucose recycling and the rate of gluconeogenesis ( alanine leads to glucose ) , both energy demanding processes .
The final mean visual acuity in group A ( 55 years of age or younger ) was 20 / 80 and significantly ( P = 0 . 006 ) better than that ( 20 / 138 ) in group B ( older than 55 years of age ) .
In humans with AMD , MCs accumulated in the subretinal space at sites of retinal degeneration and choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) .
AQP5 was expressed mainly in cell membranes in carcinoma tissues , but was almost absent in normal breast tissues .
In contrast , the implants that were irradiated three times ( single fractions at 0 , 24 , and 48 hours after implantation ) demonstrated significantly diminished ( greater than 25 percent , p less than 0 . 05 ) neovascularization beyond day 7 , whereas implants irradiated only at 48 hours after implantation did not .
CONCLUSION : Selective inhibition of iNOS by L - NIL inhibits angiogenesis in a hindlimb ischemic rat model .
VEGF gene expression and capillary density in the old donor - derived group were lower than those in the young donor - derived group but higher than those in the control group ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
After 7 months median visual acuity ( VA ) was 20 / 160 for the irradiated and 20 / 400 for the untreated patients .
In vivo glucose and alanine kinetics were examined by tracer methodology in a sarcoma - bearing rat model .
They are also known to trigger free radical generation .
Tumour angiogenesis is an important factor for tumour growth and metastasis .
We found that bolus ( 3h ) treatment with doxorubicin resulted in a dose - dependent decrease of viable cells and concomitant increase of apoptosis .
Cancer 2010 .
We detected PTTG overexpression in 66 % ( 111 of 169 ) of primary esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( ESCC ) tumor tissues by in situ hybridization .
In addition , filopodia formation , a feature of motile cells , was inhibited in PECAM - 1 - null endothelial cells as well as in human endothelial cells treated with either anti - PECAM - 1 antibody or PECAM - 1 siRNA .
To maintain an elevated glycolytic rate , cancerous or proliferating cells alter the expression pattern of rate limiting glycolytic enzymes .
In this study , we aimed to investigate the role of aberrations in the APC and beta - catenin genes in the pathogenesis of CRC in the Kashmir valley , and to correlate it with various clinicopathological variables .
Potential roles for focal adhesion kinase in development .
To study the combined effects of v - erbA and v - myb , the two oncogenes were engineered into a retrovirus bicistronic vector with an internal ribosomal entry site ( IRES ) or into a vector with a splice acceptor ( SPL ) .
Store - operated calcium entry promotes shape change in pulmonary endothelial cells expressing Trp1 .
Western blot analysis demonstrated a > 2 . 5 - fold increase in Fas protein expression , as well as elevation of the active forms of both caspase - 8 and caspase - 3 .
Although tumor cells can exploit cytokine signaling to promote growth , invasion , and metastasis , the response of normal and premalignant epithelial cells to cytokines present in a developing tumor microenvironment remains unclear .
As pregnancy advanced the complexity of the vasculature increased : at 4 weeks the surface showed a pattern of ridges separated by troughs .
Considering the relatively few number of patients treated by angiogenic therapy , the interpretation of clinical results needs cautiousness .
To examine the mechanisms underlying the relative resistance in HCC , we investigated the role of autophagy , an evolutionarily conserved self - digestion pathway , in hepatoma cells in vitro and in vivo .
METHODS : We studied VEGF expression of 85 CML patients ( median age 50 years , range 16 - 75 years ) .
RNA interference targeting Met in these tumor cells resulted in a significant delay in tumor growth in vivo compared with the control cells .
Our results indicate that TLX is involved in glioma stem cell genesis and represents a potential therapeutic target for this type of malignancy .
Common features of this ECM - assisted tissue remodelling include angiogenesis , recruitment of circulating progenitor cells and constructive remodelling of damaged tissue structures .
H4 cells formed tight , round spheroids whereas H5 cells formed loose , grape - like structures .
In acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) with t ( 7 ; 11 ) translocation , the HOX A9 gene is rearranged .
The p53 and VEGF staining statuses were coincident in only 21 % of the tumors , and no significant correlation was found between p53 and VEGF statuses .
CONCLUSIONS : Low - dose cyclophosphamide and high - dose celecoxib is well tolerated and active in pretreated aggressive non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma .
Blocking Dex - induced MKP - 1 induction using small interfering RNA increased ERK1 / 2 and JNK phosphorylation and decreased cell survival .
Magnitude of malate - aspartate reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide shuttle activity in intact respiring tumor cells .
Increased apoptosis of tumor cells and decreased angiogenesis in tumor tissue were also observed .
Overexpression of NRP1 by prostate tumor cells in vivo results in increased tumor angiogenesis and growth .
PLAG1 overexpression in salivary glands has previously been shown to result in salivary gland tumors in 100 % of mice within 5 weeks after birth .
Airway angiogenesis and microvascular remodeling are known features of bronchial asthma , but the mechanisms of these structural alterations are just beginning to be elucidated .
Loss of heterozygosity at the E - Cadherin ( uvo ) locus has been reported , but mutations in the E - cadherin gene seem to be rare .
BMP expression and activation was measured by PCR and reporter assays .
The present study compares the radiomodification by 2 - DG in monolayer cultures and spheroids of a human glioma cell line ( BMG - 1 ) to gain insight into the effects in solid tumors .
In contrast , the neuroblastoma cells grown in the coculture conditioned media show no increase in apoptosis .
HCMV immediate - early proteins were clearly shown to be responsible for elevating p53 levels in infected fibroblasts ; expression of HCMV immediate - early region 1 and 2 proteins resulted in elevation of p53 levels in transfected human fibroblasts .
The mammalian proto - oncogene Cbl and its cellular homologues in Caenorhabditis elegans ( Sli - 1 ) and Drosophila ( D - Cbl ) are negative regulators of some growth factor receptor signaling pathways .
The 20 - HETE agonist markedly increased superoxide formation as reflected by an increase in dihydroethidium staining of EC , and this increase was inhibited by PEG - SOD but not by apocynin .
We analyzed their ability to block endothelial cell chemotaxis and induce apoptosis in vitro and their antiangiogenic activity in vivo .
The pigment epithelium of the retina ( RPE ) is derived from the optic cup and is essential for function and development of the eye .
These studies have led to the hypothesis that increased consumption of glucose in metastatic lesions is not used for substantial energy production via Embden - Meyerhoff glycolysis , but rather for production of acid , which gives the cancer cells a competitive advantage for invasion .
The interaction of neoplastic cells with the extracellular matrix is a critical event for the initiation of cancer invasion and metastasis .
When MDV was reactivated by treatment of lymphoblastoid cells with 25 micrograms of iododeoxyuridine per ml , the relative levels of the transcripts decreased .
S - 100beta is also an independent prognostic marker .
Furthermore , mouse embryonic fibroblasts required the presence of B16F0 cells to express Patched in a co - culture assay system .
Our findings suggest with a reduction of steroid hormones following ovariectomy , alternatively activated macrophage markers ( Fizz1 and Ym1 ) were reduced , with this effect being reversed with the administration of estrogen or progesterone ; suggesting that with the reduction of steroid hormones macrophages are activated in a classical manner , promoting inflammation , whereas estrogen or progesterone are contributing toward macrophage activation in an alternative manner , driving wound repair , angiogenesis , and remodeling .
The induction of elevated p53 levels was dependent upon the presence of active virus and was prevented by neutralizing antibody .
Sequence analysis revealed that this gene had 95 % homology with the LMP sequence of the B95 - 8 strain .
The aim of this study was to investigate the expression profile of AQPs in human breast cancer and its significance .
Targeting a tumor - specific laminin domain critical for human carcinogenesis .
F - 2 cells cultured on Matrigel showed evident tube formation , and coculture of F - 2 cells with A431 cells led to the formation of A431 cell nests constantly surrounded by tube - like networks consisting of F - 2 cells .
Moreover , this study is the first in vivo report of the radiation - induced p53 apoptotic response in patients and suggests that this apoptotic response is not immunologically silent .
This study aimed to explore the correlation between the expression of VEGF - C in TAMs and lymphatic metastasis in human oral squamous - cell carcinoma ( OSCC ) .
The body has three equally important interactive immune defense systems , all of which are profoundly disrupted with major burn injury .
From the above , we concluded that carcinostatic agents may increase the metastatic ability of cancer cells in patients with cancer .
RESULTS : The expression ofVEGF protein was most pronounced in AP ( ANOVA , p = 0 . 033 ) .
FPR and the piperazine derivatives inhibited the activation of this enzyme .
Thrombospondin - 2 plays a protective role in multistep carcinogenesis : a novel host anti - tumor defense mechanism .
In transfected MDCK canine kidney epithelial cells , 5T4 over - expression also results in increased motility , but disruption of cell - cell contacts , either by culturing cells in low calcium medium or by addition of HGF / SF , is needed .
Here , we demonstrate that aglycon of rhizochalin ( AglRhz ) from the Rhizochalina incrustata induces AMP - activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) phosphorylation , and thereby inhibits mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) - p70S6 kinase - extracellular signal - regulated kinase ( ERK ) signaling and activator protein 1 ( AP - 1 ) activity via phosphorylation of Raptor in HT - 29 cells .
Furthermore , TGF - beta RII mutations in RER + tumors have been associated with decreased TGF - beta RII mRNA levels .
In conclusion , the present study clearly demonstrates the potential of vector - mediated antiangiogenic gene therapy as a component in cancer therapy .
These results show that the actin - binding domain of Abl enhances leukemia development but does not appear to be an absolute requirement for leukemogenesis .
Functional studies showed that Sema7A stimulates cytoskeletal reorganization in human melanocytes , resulting in adhesion and dendrite formation .
Immunohistochemical staining demonstrated VEGF in the tissues surrounding the Matrigel plugs containing AdCMV . VEGF165 up to 3 weeks after injection , whereas no VEGF was found in the control plugs with AdCMV . beta gal .
Collectively , these results suggest an important role for furin in PLAG1 - induced salivary gland tumorigenesis in mice .
Taken together , these data strongly support a role for the AP - 2 gene family , in particular , AP - 2gamma , in the control of ErbB - 3 expression .
One of the clones ( clone 1510 ) contained the gene encoding latent membrane protein ( LMP ) .
We postulate that endoscopic observation is valuable in investigating the development of gastric carcinoma , and microvascular structure and lectin binding pattern may be useful to demonstrate the mechanism of growth of gastric carcinoma .
All courses were evaluated for safety and 31 for efficacy .
There was also a statistically significant difference regarding fibrosis between groups 1 and 4 .
PTHrP also influenced expression of the adhesion factor CXCR4 , and coexpression of PTHrP and CXCR4 was crucial for metastatic spread .
Y705F / S727E mutant cells were more invasive than Y705F / S727A ( inactivation of Y705 and S727 ) mutant cells , and more Y705F / S727E mutant Stat3 was localized in the nuclei relative to Y705F / S727A mutant Stat3 at the steady state .
BACKGROUND : Inflammation followed by fibrosis is a component of islet dysfunction in both rodent and human type 2 diabetes .
The effects of IGF - 1 are mediated principally through the IGF - 1R but are modulated by complex interactions with multiple IGF binding proteins that themselves are regulated by phosphorylation , proteolysis , polymerization , and cell or matrix association .
DNA of the non - tumorigenic cell hybrids transformed Rat - 1 cells to anchorage - independent proliferation as expected for the transforming human Ha - ras gene present in the donor DNA .
These results indicate carbohydrate metabolism is altered in dogs with lymphoma .
Western blotting analysis showed that liposomal honokiol - inhibited Akt and MAPK phosphorylation in 2 endothelial cells , and downregulated expressions of VEGFR - 2 of human vascular endothelial cells and VEGFR - 3 of lymphatic endothelial cells .
Angiostatin was first discovered as a plasminogen fragment with antitumor / antiangiogenic property .
RESULTS : In lymphomatous tissue , [ 18F ] FDG uptake rates were similar in overnight fasting and euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp ( 38 + / - 10 versus 41 + / - 9 mumol / 100 g / minute , not significant ) , whereas glucose uptake in skeletal muscle was increased by insulin ( 1 . 7 + / - 0 . 2 versus 3 . 8 + / - 0 . 5 mumol / 100 g / minute , P = 0 . 012 ) .
Regulation of tumor angiogenesis by thrombospondin - 1 .
CONCLUSIONS : Retinal vasculopathies may be observed in eyes with PED and are detectable by indocyanine green and fluorescein angiography .
PURPOSE : The staging of colorectal cancer , therapeutic decision making in the management of early and advanced colorectal cancer , and dilemmas posed by drug - related toxicity are discussed .
Grape seed extract ( GSE ) , a widely used dietary supplement , is known to have antitumor activity .
Numerous products from fruits , vegetable and traditional medicinal plants have been described which can suppress TNF expression and TNF signaling but their clinical potential is yet uncertain .
This study shows that angiogenin expression is up - regulated in the cytoplasmic and nuclear compartments in in situ carcinoma and invasive carcinoma compared with normal breast tissue and that angiogenin expression in invasive carcinomas is significantly positively associated with high tumour grade ( p = 0 . 03 ) , positive oestrogen receptor ( ER ) status ( p = 0 . 01 ) , HIF - 1 alpha ( p = 0 . 001 ) and DEC 1 ( p = 0 . 001 ) , but not with patient age ( p = 0 . 8 ) , tumour size ( p = 0 . 25 ) , lymph node status ( p = 0 . 69 ) , epidermal growth factor receptor ( p = 0 . 56 ) or microvessel density ( p = 0 . 32 ) .
Radiologic defect area measurement results at 0 , 4 , and 16 weeks were compared between the groups .
14 - 3 - 3zeta Overexpression and abnormal beta - catenin expression are associated with poor differentiation and progression in stage I non - small cell lung cancer .
Effect of ROS on angiogenesis in tumors expressing hot - spot p53 mutants was correlated with their ability to increase a content of HIF1 transcriptional factor responsible for up - regulation of VEGF - A mRNAs .
METHODOLOGY AND RESULTS : In this study , we demonstrate the molecular mechanism of M - CSF - induced VEGF production .
Solid tumors must establish a blood supply in order to proliferate and grow .
These data indicate that dietary folate supplementation at 4x the basal dietary requirement significantly suppresses UC - associated colorectal carcinogenesis in the IL - 2 ( null ) x beta ( 2 ) m ( null ) mice .
In addition , this study mechanistically implicates IRSp53 in the signaling nexus between activated Cdc42 and Mena , both of which have previously been shown to be involved with Robo4 signaling in endothelial cells .
A 71 - year - old woman was admitted to our hospital because of breathlessness .
We show examples in which p53 gene induction by IFN - alpha / beta contributes to tumour suppression .
The soluble factors they release in its presence arrest the cycle of endothelial cells ( EC ) , inhibit in vitro angiogenesis , negatively modulate the production of matrix metalloproteinase - 9 , and the ability of EC to adhere to vitronectin and up - regulate ICAM - 1 and VCAM - 1 expression .
Large amounts of cytosolic NADH were oxidized by the mitochondrial respiratory chain via the NADH shuttle , comprising anywhere from about 20 to 80 % of the total flow of reducing equivalents to oxygen in these tumors .
Down - regulation of Mcl - 1 resulted in an increase in Mcl - 1 - free Bim , activation of Bax , and then signaling of mitochondria - mediated apoptosis .
Here we analyzed LDH5 protein expression in a well characterized large cohort of primary lung cancers in correlation to clinico - pathological data and its possible impact on patient survival .
Hypoxic tumor cells distant from blood vessels were dramatically reoxygenated at 24 h postirradiation , and HIF - 1 activity increased as HIF - 1alpha accumulated in the reoxygenated regions .
Angiogenesis in platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule - 1 - null mice .
This is the first report of increased p53 levels caused by HCMV in infected fibroblasts .
Biopsy specimens were examined by real - time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction ( RT - PCR ) and Western blotting ; serum was analyzed by enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) .
For the purpose of investigating the relationship between the metastatic potential of the tumor as well as the expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA , and for determing the location of the positive sites in the cells , tumor metastasis suppressor gene nm23 - H1 in human hepatocellular carcinoma ( and the nonneoplastic area surrounding the tumor ) was detected by in situ hybridization using digoxiginin - labeled nm23 - H1 antisense complementary RNA probe .
AQP4 was expressed in the cell membrane and cytoplasm and was detected markedly stronger in normal than in cancer tissues .
The purpose of this study was to determine whether upregulation of PTEN gene by transfection wild - type PTEN gene to ovarian cancer cells can inhibit growth and migration and to explore the potential for PTEN gene therapy of ovarian cancers .
After decapitation of the rats , trunk blood was obtained , and the ileum , liver , and kidney were removed for histological examination and for the measurement of malondialdehyde ( MDA ) and glutathione ( GSH ) levels , myeloperoxidase ( MPO ) activity , and collagen content .
Moreover , the M2 - PK - binding peptide aptamers also reduced the proliferation rate of human U - 2 OS osteosarcoma cells .
Expression of osteoprotegerin and RANK ligand in breast cancer bone metastasis .
Thus , DATS may represent a colon cancer preventive agent and can be used in the future .
These results are consistent with our initial hypothesis and lead us to propose that MKK inhibition by LeTx is a broadly effective strategy for targeting neovascularization in fibrosarcomas and other similar proliferative lesions .
Analysis of TGF - beta RII mRNA expression by RNase protection , with comparison of cells from the chronic , accelerated and blast phases of CML , showed no change in TGF - beta RII transcript levels during disease progression .
In addition , the model supports local tissue hypoxia in the liver and spleen , coupled with increased erythropoeitin signaling and erythropoiesis in the spleen and BM , and suppression of mechanisms that contribute to genomic stability , events that could be contributing factors to hemangiosarcoma formation .
The specific isoform ( s ) of PKC responsible for each of these changes has not been previously identified .
Target FVs are tracked by a joy - stick controlled laser aiming beam until an intravenously - injected high - concentration ICG dye bolus is observed to enter the target vessel , at which time the laser is fired .
Relationship of cellular immunity , cytokines and CRP with clinical course in breast cancer patients with endocrine - dependent distant metastases treated with immunotherapy .
These results show that matrix metalloproteinases are present at elevated levels during early wound healing , when angiogenesis occurs , and suggest that matrix metalloproteinase - 9 may play a significant role .
The present study aimed to investigate whether PTEN promoter methylation was involved in CCMs .
Incubation with 1 micromol / L sanguinarine for 4 and 24h killed more efficiently MG - 63 cells than SaOS - 2 cells , while incubation with 5 micromol / L sanguinarine killed almost 100 % of both cell populations within 24h .
PURPOSE : The purpose of this study was to evaluate the applications of magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) , and in particular , dynamic contrast - enhanced MRI ( DCE - MRI ) , in the assessment of tumour microvasculature by means of animal tumour models evaluated before and after antiangiogenic treatment .
I .
Simian virus 40 large T antigen and two independent T - antigen segments sensitize cells to apoptosis following genotoxic damage .
Hence , regulatory mechanisms of IL - 8 need to be investigated in whole tissue .
Here we investigated the effects of small molecule inhibitors ( SMIs ) designed to disrupt integrin alpha2 I or beta1 I - like domain function on angiogenesis .
Furthermore , rat mammary carcinomas with elevated neu expression ( neu - induced ) also had sharply elevated LAR - PTPase expression when compared to rat mammary carcinomas with little or no neu expression ( 7 , 12 - dimethylbenzanthracene induced ) ; the level of expression of LAR PTPase was directly correlated with the level of neu expression .
In recent years the family of ADAM proteases has been ascribed important roles in these processes .
RESULTS : Using the D2 - 40 antibody for immunostaining , our results demonstrate a significant higher detection ( P < 0 . 001 ) of LVI as compared with routine H . E . - staining in early breast cancer .
Reactive astrocytic processes and phagocytic cells are also present in the grafts .
The presence of activating TSH - R mutations has also been demonstrated in differentiated thyroid carcinomas .
Two major type IV collagenolytic metalloproteinases exhibiting molecular weights of 64 , 000 and 88 , 000 , respectively , were detected by this method .
The up - regulation of Bid ( 57 . 5 % at 12 hours , P less than 0 . 0006 ) and inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor secretion ( 57 . 7 % at 24 hours , P less than 0 . 015 ; and 50 . 3 % at 48 hours , P less than 0 . 0006 ) could be partially attributed to the effects on HIF - 1alpha , because HIF - 1alpha small interfering RNAs produced similar effects .
In 1997 , the PTEN gene ( phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 ) was identified as a tumor suppressor gene on the long arm of chromosome 10 .
Serum VEGF levels were higher in patients with PDR than in those without DR ( 219 + / - 99 vs . 139 + / - 98 pg / ml , p less than 0 . 001 ) ; however , patients with poor and good CCC had similar VEGF levels .
In this report we studied the effects of SFLLR , an agonist of the activated thrombin receptor and thrombin receptor peptide and non peptide antagonists on angiogenesis in the chick chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) system .
Surgical specimens from 20 cases of OSCC with lymph node metastasis , 20 cases of OSCC without lymph node metastasis , and 10 cases of normal mucosa were examined by immunohistochemistry .
There is accumulating evidence that the tissue damage associated with chronic wounds is initiated and propagated by an inappropriately excessive inflammatory response .
The significance of the associations was determined using Spearman correlation analysis and the chi - square test .
VEGF is a potent activator of angiogenesis as it promotes endothelial cell proliferation and new blood vessel formation .
These findings indicate that vGPCR may play a key role in Kaposi ' s sarcoma progression and provide experimental justification for developing molecular - based therapies specifically targeting vGPCR and its effectors for the treatment of Kaposi ' s sarcoma patients .
The low metastatic and G - 418 - resistant H - 3 cells were co - cultured with BALB / c3T3 fibroblasts for 2 - 4 weeks .
Promoting angiogenesis via delivery of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and other angiogenic factors is both a potential therapy for cardiovascular diseases and a critical aspect for tissue regeneration .
There is accumulating evidence of a role for IGF - 1 in multiple vascular pathologies , including atherosclerosis , hypertension , restenosis , angiogenesis , and diabetic vascular disease .
Brick1 is an essential regulator of actin cytoskeleton required for embryonic development and cell transformation .
Less than 15 % of the glucose uptake was affected by the 1 , 2 , 3 - benzenetricarboxylate inhibition of the malate - citrate shuttle .
Low density lipoprotein receptor - related protein - 1 ( LRP - 1 ) is a catabolic receptor for extracellular matrix ( ECM ) structural proteins and for proteins that bind to ECM .
MTSS1 : a multifunctional protein and its role in cancer invasion and metastasis .
Although , the growth of all three cell lines was suppressed by DMI , it was more effective in Ca3 / 7 cells .
IL - 8 or CXCL8 has been associated with tumor angiogenesis , metastasis , and poor prognosis in breast cancer .
Pigmented regions were positive for an epithelial marker , cytokeratin .
It has been shown previously that the 55 - kDa polypeptide abrogates p53 - mediated transactivation and that mutants defective in p53 binding are unable to cooperate with E1A in transformation .
This ectopic ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis and is inhibited by angiostatin over a wide pH range .
Here we report that infusion of Ang II significantly increases circulating levels of sFlt - 1 in pregnant mice , thereby demonstrating that Ang II is a regulator of sFlt - 1 secretion in vivo .
The p75 receptor belongs to the tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) family of death receptors and has been suggested as a receptor that mediates apoptosis in neuronal and NB cells .
Research and discovery of the first human cancer virus , HTLV - 1 .
B - cell lines established from two individuals with T - cell acute lymphocytic leukemia ( T - ALL ) express HLA - DR antigens , whereas the isogenic T - cells do not .
Transforming growth factor - beta ( TGF - beta ) , a major factor in the activation of fibroblasts , increased alpha - SMA and desmin expression and the ability of cell migration and invasion in NIH3T3 cells .
Topoisomerase I ( topo I ) is an important target for the treatment of malignant disease , especially colorectal cancer .
OBJECTIVES : To compare the proteomic expression profile between an Epstein - Barr virus - associated NPC cell line ( C666 - 1 ) and a normal NP cell line ( NP69 ) .
It is proposed that the switch from tumor suppressor to oncogene reflects genetic or epigenetic alterations in signaling pathways in tumor cells that alter the readout from the TGFbeta1 pathway .
These data confirm the importance of tissue architecture and polarity in malignant progression .
By interacting with Sp1 , HMGA2 interferes with the recruitment of HDAC2 to the hTERT proximal promoter , enhancing localized histone H3 - K9 acetylation and thereby stimulating hTERT expression and telomerase activity .
These effects do not require direct cell - cell contact , yet result from continuous interaction between activated lymphoid cells and EC .
Four weeks later , islet gene analysis and pancreas immunochemistry were performed .
Here , we report the cDNA cloning of the corresponding oncogene , designated UFO , in allusion to the as yet unidentified function of its protein .
Vimentin expression , growth fractions ( GF ) , and estrogen receptor ( ER ) levels were determined for 90 untreated primary breast carcinomas .
RESULTS : Methylation - specific polymerase chain reaction revealed PTEN promoter methylation in 15 . 9 % CCMs .
METHODS : Immunohistochemical staining of E - cadherin and alpha - and beta - catenin was performed using specimens from 143 patients with early gastric cancer .
In contrast , pellets from the CLA - fed animals contained fewer infiltrating cells , which formed limited branching cellular networks , the majority of which had collapsed lumen and no RBCs .
Analyses of this sort may help to identify the cellular targets of pp60src whose phosphorylation is necessary for the increased glucose transport rate .
In a three - dimensional model of breast carcinogenesis , disorganized , proliferative transformed breast epithelial cells express significantly higher expression of angiogenic genes compared with their polarized , growth - arrested nonmalignant counterparts .
One theoretical possibility is that mast cells may prepare the matrix , perhaps by slow release of heparin , so that capillary sprouts can more easily move through it toward their angiogenic target .
In vitro studies found that exposure to Cum - OOH reduced the level of glutathione ( GSH ) in mouse epidermal cells ( JB6 P + ) and caused the induction of AP - 1 .
This transporter was expressed on the cell membrane and in the cytoplasm of the tumor cells , but exhibited marked intratumoral and intertumoral variability in the proportions of positive cells and the intensity of staining .
Cancer metastasis : negative regulation by an invasion - suppressor complex .
9E3 / CEF4 mRNA was expressed in chicken peripheral blood monocytes , and its expression was stimulated by incubation of the monocytes with lipopolysaccharide or phorbol myristic acetate .
This observed genomic instability will be of value in predicting the potential metastatic behavior of these aggressive pituitary tumors .
The same result was obtained when the model contained ER status and ER - tamoxifen interaction .
Expression of DCC and netrin - 1 in normal human endometrium and its implication in endometrial carcinogenesis .
Binding studies with SPARC and SPARC peptides indicate specific and saturable interaction with smooth muscle cells that involves the C - terminal Ca2 + - binding region of the protein .
Transporters , enzymes , and enalapril removal in a rat ( CC531 - induced ) liver metastatic model .
The majority had nuclear ( 70 . 1 % ) or nuclear and cytoplasmic staining ( 17 . 3 % ) .
However , the exact mechanism underlying the cytotoxic effects of pacitaxel , especially in the survival - signalling pathway , is poorly understood .
The more pronounced effects of Bmi - 1 over - expression in culture were largely attributable to the attenuated induction of p16 ( Ink4a ) and p19 ( Arf ) in culture , proteins that are generally not expressed by neural stem / progenitor cells in young mice in vivo .
This cellular interaction was tumor - specific , although isolated granules could enhance fibroblast proliferation .
Interestingly , the human B - lymphoblastoid cell line SKW6 . 4 , a prototype for mitochondria - independent death receptor - induced apoptosis , was also sensitized to anti - CD95 and TRAIL - induced apoptosis under glucose - free conditions .
Vascular endothelial growth factor - C ( VEGF - C ) plays a crucial role in lymphangiogenesis , and is implicated to play an important role in lymph node metastasis .
This in vitro morphogenesis was inhibited by the addition of anti - sialyl Le ( x ) / Le ( a ) or anti - beta ( 1 ) - integrin antibodies , which led to the formation of cancer cell aggregates that were independent from the F - 2 cell networks .
In patients with resectable gastric cancer , the grade of infiltrating dendritic cells may be a suitable predictor of prognosis .
Non - specific PKC inhibitors staurosporine and bisindolylmaleimide II as well as inhibitors specific to conventional PKCs ( Go6976 ) and PKC - delta ( rottlerin ) attenuated NF - kappaB activation in BPDE treated cells to a varying degree indicating a possible link between PKC down - regulation and the attenuation of NF - kappaB activity by TSC phenolic fraction .
The expression of the transfected oncogenes in this cell line was examined in comparison with the erythrophoroma cells by Western and Northern blot analyses .
Desensitization of prostaglandin F2 alpha - stimulated inositol phosphate generation in NIH - 3T3 fibroblasts transformed by overexpression of normal c - Ha - ras - 1 , c - Ki - ras - 2 and c - N - ras genes .
Furthermore , we investigated the correlation between CXCR4 expression and the clinical features of 221 gastric cancer tissue samples .
2 - Methoxyestradiol ( 2ME2 ) is a natural compound with HIF - 1alpha inhibitory activity that is currently being evaluated in phase 1 and 2 clinical trials for advanced solid tumors and multiple myeloma .
The permeability of plasma membranes for K + increases 2 . 75 fold , while the passive flux of Na + diminishes .
Cell lines established from such foci elicit tumours in syngeneic animals .
HYPOTHESIS : We speculate that there is a burst of angiogenesis of distant dormant micrometastases after surgery in approximately 20 % of premenopausal node - positive patients .
Increased VEGF expression by malignant tumors has been associated with high vascularity , increased cancer cell growth , and lymph node metastasis .
We utilized two autologous human melanoma cell lines , IV Cl 1 and IV Cl 3 , which displayed qualitatively different metastatic phenotypes following subdermal inoculation into nude mice .
We investigated how inhibition of glucose metabolism could affect death receptor - mediated apoptosis in human tumor cells of diverse origin .
p63 - positive carcinomas were poorly differentiated , hormone receptor - negative neoplasms with a high proliferation rate .
Prolonged culture led to the implantation of cancer cells into the monolayer of the F - 2 cells , which was mediated mainly by alpha ( 3 ) beta ( 1 ) - integrin .
CONCLUSIONS : We reported here for the first time the involvement of PTEN promoter methylation in CCMs , particularly in familial CCMs , suggesting this epigenetic alteration as a potential pathomechanism of CCMs .
Because PIM - 1 is a STAT5 target gene , we analyzed the role of the family of PIM serine / threonine kinases ( PIM - 1 to PIM - 3 ) in PTK - mediated transformation of hematopoietic cells .
The most common toxicity was skin rash ( 40 % ) ; myelosuppression and gastrointestinal side effects were uncommon .
Anagen - associated angiogenesis offers an attractive model for identifying the physiologic controls of cutaneous angiogenesis , and an interesting system for screening the effects of potential antiangiogenic drugs in vivo .
BACKGROUND & # 38 ; OBJECTIVE : It has been proved that Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) latent membrane protein 1 ( EBV - LMP1 ) can induce the expression of matrix metalloproteinase - 9 ( MMP - 9 ) .
No vessels were visualized in the controls .
Alterations in carbohydrate metabolism in canine lymphoma .
The molecular basis of this behaviour could be related to different locations for the lactate dehydrogenase isoenzymes , as suggested by their immunohistochemical labelling .
mRNA expression levels of angiogenesis stimulators and inhibitors were determined by quantitative RT - PCR .
Some responders with congenital neutropenia and Shwachman - Diamond syndrome ( SDS ) have developed myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia ( MDS / AML ) , which raises the question of the role of G - CSF in pathogenesis .
p53 appears to be a nuclear transcription factor that plays a role in the control of cell proliferation , apoptosis , and the maintenance of genetic stability .
Better stem cell and progenitor cell markers as well as the ability to specifically target oncogenes into different mammary cell types will be needed to determine the spectrum of oncogene transformation for stem cells versus more differentiated cells .
To understand the biologic mechanisms of this extremely effective response , we compared by microarray the gene - expression profile of patients ' biopsies taken before and after radiation .
In contrast , rap1GAPII , a negative regulator of Rap1 , did not inhibit ephrin - B1 - induced membrane ruffling .
Protein expression profile of primary human squamous cell lung carcinomas indicative of the incidence of metastases .
These changes are associated with intimal proliferation and vessel narrowing , and thereby may contribute to clinical outcomes associated with pulmonary hypertension .
Reconstitution of MCF - 7 cell extracts with procaspase - 3 corrects this defect , resulting in an efficient and complete processing of procaspase - 9 .
Based on the observation that netrin - 1 , the anti - apoptotic ligand for the dependence receptors DCC and UNC5H is up - regulated in colonic crypts in response to NF - kappaB , we show here that colorectal cancers from inflammatory bowel diseases patients have selected up - regulation of netrin - 1 .
Smooth muscle - rich tissues respond to mechanical overload by an adaptive hypertrophic growth combined with activation of angiogenesis , which potentiates their mechanical overload - bearing capabilities .
Experiments using the tsA 58 allele of the SV 40 - A gene have demonstrated that the SV 40 large T - antigen is strictly required both for immortalization and induction anchorage independence of cells .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is an angiogenic stimulator which functions through two endothelial specific tyrosine kinase receptors , Flt - 1 and Flk - 1 .
We conclude that Oxygent increases TET epithelial PtO ( 2 ) , improves epithelial metabolism , does not impair angiogenesis , and tends to slow cartilage tissue formation .
Ex vivo cultures from invasive tumors or metastases produced cells that were homogeneously E - cadherin - positive and noninvasive in vitro .
In contrast , the incidence and density of somatostatin receptors in peritumoral vessels was low in well - differentiated gastrointestinal and bronchial carcinoids , in contrast to the high density of such receptors in the carcinoid tumor tissue .
Sunitinib markedly induced apoptosis of PC12 cells in a dose - dependent and time - dependent manner .
Metastatic disease is one of the major causes of death from cancer in human beings .
In agreement , induced overexpression of VEGF - C in LAPC - 9 enhanced tumor lymphangiogenesis leading to the development of metastatic lesions .
In addition , ethanol exposure decreased expression of endothelial VEGF receptor - 2 , as well as VEGF receptor - 2 phosphorylation in vitro .
Induction of these genes also occurred in diverticulitis and digestive neoplasms such as gastric and esophageal carcinomas .
BACKGROUND : Recently , the desmoplastic reaction has been implicated as having an important function in epithelial solid tumor biology .
Systemic inhibitors of TNF such as etanercept ( Enbrel ) ( a soluble TNF receptor ) and infliximab ( Remicade ) and adalimumab ( Humira ) ( anti - TNF antibodies ) have been approved for the treatment inflammatory bowel disease , psoriasis and rheumatoid arthritis .
Cervical cancer develops from well - defined precursor lesions referred to as either cervical intraepithelial neoplasia or squamous intraepithelial lesions .
The stromal fibrous reaction associated to infiltrating carcinomas is responsible of focal increased density , and architectural distorsion , ultrasound acoustic shadowing ; abnormal neoangiogenesis can be detected by Doppler , CT or MR imaging .
Vimentin is preferentially expressed in human breast carcinomas with low estrogen receptor and high Ki - 67 growth fraction .
Epidermal growth factor ( EGF ) binds with high affinity and specificity to a single site on the external domain of its transmembrane receptor to activate the tyrosine protein kinase activity of its cytoplasmic portion .
This model will be useful for understanding mechanisms underlying vascular and angiogenic neoplasias , as well as for testing drugs designed to curtail aberrant EC growth .
VM is critical for a tumor blood supply and is asscociated with aggressive features and metastasis .
Effects of spironolactone on corneal allograft survival in the rat .
Inhibition of MEK also blocked growth factor induced migration but not adhesion of endothelial cells in vitro .
Changes in endothelial cell shape accompanied SOC activation and were dependent on Ca2 + entry - induced reconfiguration of peripheral ( cortical ) filamentous actin ( F - actin ) .
s - VEGF in peripheral blood samples was analyzed in 40 RCC patients and 40 patients without cancer ( controls ) using a sandwich enzyme - linked immunoassay .
The higher mortality rate in the folate - deficient group compared with the other two groups ( 25 % versus 6 . 5 % and 5 . 6 % , P < 0 . 02 ) partially accounted for the low incidence of high - grade lesions in this group .
RESULTS : In all , 67 vascular abnormalities were found by indocyanine green angiography and only 22 by fluorescein angiography ; this finding was statistically significant ( P less than 0 . 0001 ) .
To examine this hypothesis , we used NCI - H1299 non - small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) cell line ( p53 and PTEN null cell ) and constructed an ICAM - 3 - over - expressing stable transfectant , which exhibited increased cell migration and invasion .
In contrast , the response of cells to long - term treatment with PDBu was significantly different depending upon the initial growth state of the cells .
The necessity of Crk in ephrin - B1 - induced membrane ruffling was shown both by the overexpression of dominant negative Crk mutants and by the depletion of Crk by using RNA interference .
Immunohistochemical study with specific antisera was done .
What was observed , however , was the multistep acquisition of aberrant cellular genetic changes in marrow cells from patients who transformed , including activating ras oncogene mutations , clonal cytogenetic abnormalities , and G - CSF receptor mutations .
The deficiency in the p53 - mediated regulation of glycolysis and mitochondrial respiration greatly accounts for the deficient respiration of the predominance of aerobic glycolysis in cancer cells ( the Warburg effect ) , while the deficiency in the p53 - modulated antioxidant defense mechanisms contributes to mutagenesis and additionally boosts the carcinogenesis process .
At the cellular level many actions of thrombin can contribute to activation of angiogenesis : ( 1 ) .
The relative resistance of PC - 3 cells to drug - induced apoptosis was associated with constitutive Akt activation , higher levels of cFLIP - L and Bcl - 2 , and lower levels of Bax .
Taken together , these results lend great support to use PDGFRbeta antagonists in combinations with other antitumor and / or anti - angiogenic agents in the treatment of a variety of cancers .
One cell line ( ESM - 1 ) derived from the erythrophores transfected with src / myc grew successively over nine months , indicating its acquisition of immortality .
In this study , we have established stable cell lines overexpressing PLD1 and PLD2 from fibroblast cells .
These results suggest a role for HS chains of perlecan in improving graft patency by selectively promoting endothelial cell proliferation while modulating platelet adhesion .
Neurovascular effects of CD47 signaling : promotion of cell death , inflammation , and suppression of angiogenesis in brain endothelial cells in vitro .
Tumours from younger patients had a higher grade of angiogenesis ( P = 0 . 05 ) .
Breast cancer cells lacking final sigma expression showed increased number of chromosomal breaks and gaps when exposed to gamma - irradiation .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the effect of the expression and mutation of c - kit gene and its relationship with clinical pathology and prognosis of gastrointestinal stromal tumor ( GIST ) .
This study aimed to clarify the relationship between the expression of the EphA2 and E - cadherin proteins and clinicopathological characteristics , with reference to the expression levels of both EphA2 and E - cadherin , in patients with colorectal cancer .
Balb / c 3T3 cells carrying this NPC - LMP gene showed a transformed cell morphology and were tumorigenic in nude mice .
L - Carnitine ameliorates methotrexate - induced oxidative organ injury and inhibits leukocyte death .
Rat tissues known to express these glucose transporters were used as controls .
VEGF - targeted therapy : therapeutic potential and recent advances .
[ A case report of advanced gastric cancer responding to TS - 1 , a novel oral fluorouracil derivative ] .
Univariate and multivariate analyses revealed high PLD as the only independent variable predictive of neck metastasis .
To examine the mechanisms by which insulin regulates VEGF expression , human retinal pigment epithelial ( RPE ) cells were exposed to insulin , and VEGF mRNA levels were quantified with RNase protection assays ( RPAs ) .
Our results confirm a close link between the two metabolic enzymes and indicate an alteration in the glucose metabolism in the process of malignant transformation .
These studies suggest that Hedgehog signaling regulates melanoma related vascular formation and function .
The grafts are extensively vascularized with capillaries composed of nonfenestrated endothelium ; intercellular junctions are evident at sites of apposition between endothelial cells .
These inhibitors are directed towards the receptors of VEGF or intracellular substrates for the receptors .
Recent evidence suggests an association of these polymorphisms with an increased risk of cervical cancer , so we explored this relationship .
Our results showed that curcumin dose - dependently inhibited ( P < 0 . 05 ) the proliferation of MCF - 7 cells .
To elucidate the role of free radicals and leukocytes in MTX - induced oxidative organ damage and the putative protective effect of L - carnitine ( L - Car ) , Wistar albino rats were administered a single dose of MTX ( 20 mg / kg ) followed by either saline or L - Car ( 500 mg / kg ) for 5 days .
The integrin alpha5beta1 - Fibronectin interaction was demonstrated on the chip .
Emodin , at a 40 - microM concentration , which repressed tyrosine kinase of p185neu , efficiently inhibited both anchorage - dependent and anchorage - independent growth of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells .
They code for proteins of 21 kDa , highly conserved in evolution , which belong to the superfamily of ras GTPases .
The primary results indicated ( i ) positive results of in situ hybridization are presence of granules or masses in the cytoplasm ; ( ii ) the less expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA , the higher metastatic rate of the human hepatocellular carcinoma ( P < 0 . 05 ) ; ( iii ) expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA dose not correlate with some other factors such as tumor size and the background of other liver diseases .
In addition , when 200 micrograms U - 995 was injected i . p . into mice it suppressed sarcoma - 180 cell growth and B16 - F10 mouse melanoma cell metastasis in vivo .
The relationship between P185neu - protein tyrosine kinase expression and specific PTPase expression may play a critical role in human breast tumorigenesis .
Prior studies showed enhancement of such carcinogenesis by repeated 20 rad head and neck X - radiation exposures , and it was proposed that one possible mechanism was radiogenic alteration of the functional microvasculature in a manner which favored subsequent tumor development .
C / EBPbeta is over - expressed in gastric carcinogenesis and is associated with COX - 2 expression .
Apoptotic index ( AI ) was calculated , based on the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase - mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate biotin nick end labeling , to evaluate apoptosis .
A major step forwards in the treatment of solid tumors is the recognition of the tumor - associated vasculature as an important target for therapy .
Our results reveal an aspect of the precise molecular mechanisms of some breast cancers , in which full invasiveness is not acquired just by intracellular alterations of cancer cells , but extracellular factors from microenvironments may also be necessary .
Under conditions mimicking the injection environment , the lipoplex - serum interaction was strongly dependent on helper lipid and ionic strength : lipoplexes prepared in 150 mM NaCl or lipoplexes with high ( greater than 33 mol % ) cholesterol were found to aggregate immediately .
Peritoneal NOS activity is increased fivefold in long - term PD patients compared with control subjects .
As predicted , these MEFs upregulated Hif - 1alpha and HIF target genes directly as a result of FH deficiency .
Conversely , tumor cell expression of NCAM in a fibrosarcoma model ( T241 ) improved pericyte recruitment and increased perivascular deposition of ECM molecules .
CONCLUSION : The up - regulation of HER2 and B ( 1 ) R in precursor lesions of gallbladder carcinoma suggests cross - talk between these two receptors that may be of importance in the modulation of cell proliferation in gallbladder carcinogenesis .
Neovascularization is associated with mechanical strain - dependent induction of angiogenic factors such as CCN1 , an immediate - early gene - encoded matricellular molecule critical for vascular development and repair .
Together , we proposed that MOG alone or administered with other anticancer agents may provide a novel therapeutic strategy for leukemia .
1 , 4 - phenylenebis ( methylene ) selenocyanate , but not selenomethionine , inhibits androgen receptor and Akt signaling in human prostate cancer cells .
[ Tumor metastasis and the fibrinolytic system ] .
CONCLUSIONS : Thus , expression of the TrkA receptor itself inhibits p75 mediated apoptosis in NB cells .
Perfusion thresholds were estimated at tumor blood flow values of 69 . 0 + / - 0 . 1 ml / 100 g / min ( estimate + / - standard error ) and of 69 + / - 7 . 1 ml / 100 g / min for the beginning of the decline in regional ATP and glucose content , respectively .
The lack of expression correlates with a lack of detectable HLA - DR mRNA .
Survivin expression in breast carcinoma : correlation with apoptosis and prognosis .
Folate supplementation may reduce the risk of colorectal dysplasia and cancer in subjects with chronic ulcerative colitis ( UC ) .
The relationship between this unique type of EBV and NPC has yet to be established .
Cell type - specific regulation of angiogenic growth factor gene expression and induction of angiogenesis in nonischemic tissue by a constitutively active form of hypoxia - inducible factor 1 .
Angiogenesis inhibitors : current strategies and future prospects .
Compared with the control cells , a desensitization of the response was observed in cells transformed by the overexpression of N - , Ha - , or Ki - ras genes .
The alternative splicing of Brn - 3a mRNA produces two molecular forms : a longer , Bcl - 2 transactivating form , and a shorter inactive form , lacking 84 AA in the aminoterminus .
Each bone was placed in masseter muscle separately .
Presence of subfoveal CNV at 6 and 12 months of follow - up was determined by review of fluorescein angiograms .
LDH5 overexpression was associated with histological type ( adenocarcinoma = 57 % , squamous cell carcinoma = 45 % , large cell carcinoma = 46 % , p = 0 . 006 ) .
After 4 days , these cells are harvested and cytospins made for immunostaining .
RESULTS : We demonstrated that cisplatin provoked a time - and dose - dependent decrease of HUVEC migration ; this effect was clearly independent from its well known cytotoxic activity .
Furthermore , IL - 1beta - induced p38 mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) activation and upregulation of VEGF - C mRNA and protein in LLC cells was also suppressed by artemisinin or by the p38 MAPK inhibitor SB - 203580 , suggesting that p38 MAPK could serve as a mediator of proinflammatory cytokine - induced VEGF - C expression .
Extensive research , however , has revealed that TNF - alpha is one of the major players in tumor initiation , proliferation , invasion , angiogenesis and metastasis .
We investigated the mechanism by which ephrin - B1 promotes membrane ruffling in human aortic endothelial cells , because membrane ruffling heralds cell body migration .
The activity of mitochondrial hexokinase was not inhibited by 150 microM 3 - BrPA , but this concentration caused more than 70 % inhibition of GAPDH ( glyceraldehyde - 3 - phosphate dehydrogenase ) and 3 - phosphoglycerate kinase activities .
Similarly , flow cytometric measurements revealed that leukocyte apoptosis was increased in MTX - treated animals , while L - Car reversed these effects .
Mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) activities were investigated to explore the mechanism of this induction .
High levels of allele loss also were detected for chromosomes 8q ( 4 of 9 ; 44 % ) and 16p ( 5 of 6 ; 83 % ) and may indicate the presence of additional cellular genes whose functional loss is important in the development of HCCs .
These results strongly suggested that the BI - 1 gene might play a crucial role in neoplastic genesis and development .
Inhibition of MAP kinase kinase ( MEK ) during this sustained alphavbeta3 - dependent ERK signal blocked the formation of new blood vessels while not influencing preexisting blood vessels on the CAM .
A number of signaling cascades have been shown to play important roles in prostate cancer development and progression , including the androgen receptor ( AR ) and phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase / Akt signaling pathways .
Immune complex kinase assays in the simian virus 40 system were performed by incubation of immunoprecipitates containing tumor antigens with [ gamma - 32P ] ATP , followed by analysis of any phosphoacceptor proteins .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : c - erbB2 , evaluated by immunohistochemistry in 145 of 173 patients randomly assigned to 2 - year adjuvant tamoxifen or no further therapy , was considered overexpressed if greater than 10 % of the cells showed specific membrane staining .
In the trans - splenic hepatic metastasis model using nude mice , the augmentation of cancer metastasis was observed by the treatment of carcinostatic agents .
Down syndrome critical region gene 1 ( DSCR - 1 ) short variant ( DSCR - 1s ) is an inhibitor of calcineurin / NFAT signaling encoded by exons 4 - 7 of DSCR1 .
CONCLUSIONS : Low sVAP - 1 levels are associated with poor prognosis in gastric cancer .
The antibody also blocks ligand - stimulated activation of PDGFRbeta and downstream signaling molecules , including Akt and MAPK p42 / 44 , in tumor cells .
Dogs with lymphoma had similar glucose tolerance curves when compared with controls .
DLC1 protein level is elevated in more than 90 % of human breast tumors .
Metabolic regulation by p53 .
The microcirculation of most tumors includes cooperation of pre - existing vessels , intussusceptive microvascular growth , postnatal vasculogenesis , glomeruloid angiogenesis and vasculogenic mimicry ( VM ) .
Boyden double - membrane analysis of chemotaxis showed that 9E3 / CEF4 was chemotactic for chicken peripheral blood mononuclear cells , as well as for heterophils .
The study shows that clear cell tumors are able to up - regulate angiogenic growth factor receptors more efficiently than chromophil ( papillary ) , that clear cell tumors can use pathways independent of VHL to regulate angiogenesis , and that this combined regulation may account for their more aggressive phenotype , which suggests that targeting VEGFR1 ( flt - l ) may be particularly effective in these tumor types .
These experiments demonstrate that direct interactions between breast cancer and stromal or osteoblastic cells induce osteoclastogenesis in vitro through modulating RANKL expression .
It suggests that TB4 could be a hypoxia responsive regulator to control tumor cell migration in angiogenesis and tumor metastasis .
Several regulatory and signaling molecules governing angiogenesis are of interest , including growth factors ( eg , vascular endothelial growth factor , platelet - derived growth factor , fibroblast growth factor , and epidermal growth factor ) , receptor tyrosine kinases , and transcription factors such as hypoxia inducible factor , as well as molecules involved in mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) and phosphoinositide 3 - kinase ( PI3K ) signaling .
Increased glucose transporter protein expression may contribute to the increased uptake of 2 - [ 18F ] - fluoro - 2 - deoxy - D - glucose ( FDG ) by these tumors observed by positron emission tomography ( PET ) imaging .
It is hypothesized that the NO derived from inducible NOS ( iNOS ) may promote survival of ischemic tissue through angiogenesis .
Interestingly , the level of cyclin D3 protein , known as an activator of G ( 1 ) to S phase transition in the cell cycle , was aberrantly high in cells overexpressing PLD1 and PLD2 compared with control cells .
We conclude that CD47 signaling can negatively affect the viability and function of cerebral endothelial cells , further supporting the notion that CD47 may be a potential neurovascular target for stroke and brain injury .
CONCLUSION : Together , our findings suggest that RASSF1C , unlike RASSF1A , is not a tumor suppressor , but instead may play a role in stimulating metastasis and survival in breast cancer cells .
Therefore , we next examined the effect of DMI on Ca3 / 7 cells , resistant to growth inhibition by the synthetic glucocorticoid fluocinolone acetonide ( FA ) .
Furthermore , mast cells have no mitogenic activity for capillary endothelial cells .
Tumor - specific DNA changes were detected in two additional HCCs , suggesting that the small region of chromosome 17p defined by the flanking cell DNA probe is commonly altered in hepatomas .
When tumor cells possessed a high level of UK , laminin and type IV collagen , components of the basement membrane , disappeared from tumor tissues .
Two distraction rates ( 0 . 5 and 1 mm / day ) were compared and for each group three patients were analyzed .
We examined the paired tumour and normal - tissue specimens of 86 CRC patients for the occurrence of aberrations in the mutation cluster region ( MCR ) of the APC gene and exon 3 of the beta - catenin gene by polymerase chain reaction - single - strand conformation polymorphism ( PCR - SSCP ) and / or PCR - direct sequencing .
Co - treatment with inhibitors of autophagy results in marked enhancement of cell death .
Multikinase inhibitor sorafenib inhibits proliferation and angiogenesis of tumors by suppressing the Raf / MEK / ERK signaling pathway and VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase .
Sorafenib inhibited the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 and its inhibition led to accumulation of LC3 - II .
The tumor mass thus formed was an average 5 . 8 - fold as large as control A431 tumors that were grown without F - 2 cells .
Determining sVAP - 1 levels may be valuable for predicting prognosis and lymph node metastasis .
IFN - alpha / beta signalling itself does not activate p53 ; rather , it contributes to boosting p53 responses to stress signals .
By SAGE ( serial analysis of gene expression ) analysis , we identified final sigma as a gene whose expression is 7 - fold lower in breast carcinoma cells than in normal breast epithelium .
This resulted in beta tumor cell metastases in distant organs and local lymph nodes , demonstrating a role for pericytes in limiting tumor cell metastasis .
Participation of p53 cellular tumour antigen in transformation of normal embryonic cells .
Destruction of an existing vasculature also directly inflicts serious damage to the tumor cell .
Therefore we suggest that HKa through its D5 domain alters P13 - kinase - Akt signaling to inhibit endothelial cell migration through alterations in the focal adhesions .
A C - terminal segment consisting of T - antigen amino acids 251 to 708 ( T251 - 708 ) also sensitized cells to 5 - FU - induced apoptosis .
Our data suggest that plasmin - nicked beta2GPI promotes angiogenesis by interacting with plasmin - generated AS4 . 5 in sites of increased fibrinolysis such as thrombus .
A clone of NIH3T3 transformant ( H - 3 ) , obtained by transfecting genomic DNA of a human colon carcinoma cell line , contains human K - ras oncogene and yields metastatic pulmonary nodules after intravenous injection of the cells into nude mice .
We believe that this group of RNAs , which map antisense to the ICP4 homolog gene , are latency - associated transcripts of MDV .
Hepatectomy was performed , and the patient is alive and free of disease 1 year postsurgery .
After confirmation by immunocytochemical staining , their expression in patient samples was measured using 40 pairs of undifferentiated NPCs together with their adjacent normal epithelia .
During 8 days of culture under 5 % O ( 2 ) , but not room air , the addition of FGF2 to explants stimulated the formation of Gs - IB ( 4 - ) positive , CD31 - positive , and Flk - 1 - positive microvessels in a concentration - dependent manner .
Medical therapy to improve symptoms , stabilise the underlying vascular disease and improve lower limb outcomes is an important and effective adjunct to lifestyle modification and surgical or endovascular interventions in patients with IC .
Many of these measures appear suitable for use in cancer prevention .
None of the polymorphisms were associated with risk of advanced stage or histologic subtype of cervical cancer .
The special attention is focused on the ambiguity of the neutrophil role in oncogenesis .
Additional experiments revealed FT to be effective component of UFT ; uracil remained ineffective in the inhibition of angiogenesis .
Rise in lactate concentrations over baseline levels in the first 30 minutes of the glucose tolerance test were significantly higher in dogs with lymphoma ( P = 0 . 011 ) .
Regulation of transforming growth factor - beta signaling and vascular diseases .
While TSP - 2 deficiency did not affect tumor differentiation or proliferation , tumor cell apoptosis was significantly reduced .
To further clarify the influence of mechanical strain on the regulation of bone formation , bone growth factors ( insulin - like growth factor [ IGF ] I , IGF binding protein [ IGFBP ] 3 , transforming growth factor [ TGF ] beta1 , and basic FGF [ bFGF ] ) , bone matrix degrading enzymes ( matrix - metalloproteinases [ MMPs ] 1 , 2 , and 3 ) , human growth hormone ( hGH ) , and bone formation markers ( ALP , bone - specific ALP [ BAP ] , and osteocalcin [ OC ] ) have been analyzed in serum samples from 10 patients in each group pre - and postoperatively .
Ectopic expression of SEMA3B or SEMA3F reduced soft - agar colony formation , adhesion , and cell invasion of ovarian cancer cell cultures .
Correspondingly , Ang - 2 manipulatory therapies have been shown to exert protumorigenic as well as antitumorigenic effects .
The migration activity of mast cell conditioned medium was resistant to heat ( 100 degrees C ) and incubation with proteolytic enzymes .
This may explain why some patients remain without symptoms or signs of ischemia .
Endothelial cell migration was attenuated by treatment of cells with GM6001 , a non - specific inhibitor of MMPs , or by a selective anti - MMP2 antibody .
ECs on 15 - microm wide strips had highest speed , particularly in the direction of the strip .
The similarity between RhoA effects and thyroid transformation by Ras suggests that RhoA may act as a downstream effector of Ras ; in fact , the dominant negative RhoA N19 abolished the down - regulatory effect of Ras V12 over the Tg promoter .
We analyzed the relative abundance of ST3 and BM - 40 / SPARC transcripts by Northern blot , and their distribution by in situ hybridization , in normal mucosa , benign adenomas , and primary colorectal adenocarcinomas and their liver metastases .
Patients having low sVAP - 1 levels had significantly poorer prognosis relative to patients having elevated sVAP - 1 in all or stages I - III gastric cancer patients , respectively .
Furthermore , thrombin increases the secretion of VEGF and enhances the expression and protein synthesis of matrix metalloprotease - 9 and alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) integrin in human prostate cancer PC - 3 cells .
IMPLICATIONS : Short - course cytotoxic chemotherapy after surgery has probably reached its zenith , and other strategies , perhaps antiangiogenic methods , are needed to successfully treat more patients .
Transformation - associated cytokine 9E3 / CEF4 is chemotactic for chicken peripheral blood mononuclear cells .
Swainsonine caused a great distortion to the vasculature at 18 weeks .
Such activities of p53 would not only help to prevent cancer development , but might also contribute to non - tumour related roles for p53 , such as in the regulation of longevity .
A validated assay in human fat tissue is needed to study the role of angiogenesis in human obesity .
Many cellular and biochemical effects of curcumin in mouse fibroblast cells have been reported , such as inhibition of protein kinase C ( PKC ) activity induced by phorbol 12 - myristate 13 - acetate treatment , inhibition of tyrosine protein kinase activity , and inhibition of arachidonic acid ( AA ) metabolism .
The expression of HMGA2 modulates the expression of hTERT , resulting in cells with enhanced telomerase activities and increased telomere length .
Molecular events leading to enhanced glucose transport in Rous sarcoma virus - transformed cells .
Using univariate analysis , the S - 100beta level and metastatic profile were found to be statistically significant prognostic factors for survival .
John ' s wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) , has emerged as key player not only in the antidepressant activity of the plant but also as an inhibitor of bacteria lymphocyte and tumor cell proliferation , and matrix proteinases .
Both h - MVD and VEGF immunoreactivity were statistically associated with lymph node metastasis ( P = . 012 and . 037 , respectively ) .
The animals in groups 3 and 4 also received L - NIL and saline respectively without surgical procedure .
Therapeutic angiogenesis : a complex problem requiring a sophisticated approach .
VTAs inhibit specific factors required to induce and direct the angiogenic process , with major activity against small tumor masses and at the tumor periphery , encompassing monoclonal antibodies and small molecules inhibitors of the tyrosine kinase domain of the VEGF receptor .
Presumably , glycolysis is one of the regulatory mechanisms of intracellular ratios of monovalent cations .
PTTG - induced galectin - 1 transactivation and expression were mediated by c - Myc , and both inductions were suppressed by c - Myc RNAi cotranfection .
At the commencement of the study , 29 patients were in chronic phase ( CP ) , 25 in an accelerated phase ( AP ) , and 31 in the blast crisis ( BC ) .
In contrast , tube formation was significantly reduced by SMI496 , a beta1 I - like domain inhibitor and by function - blocking anti - alpha2beta1 but not - alpha1beta1 antibodies .
RESULTS : VEGF isoforms and its receptors ' mRNA were expressed in neuroblastoma and control tissues .
This review will summarize the current position of CECs , EPCs and EMPs in cell biology terms , with particular emphasis on their relationship to malignant disease .
The activity of the Tie1 promoter is suppressed by shear stress and by tumor necrosis factor alpha .
METHODS : Tissues samples were taken from 60 patients with esophageal SCC after surgery .
Involvement of PTEN promoter methylation in cerebral cavernous malformations .
Glucose uptake and lipogenesis were severely blocked by knocking - down of PFKFB2 using siRNA ( small interfering RNA ) or by inhibition of PFK - 2 activity with LY294002 treatment .
As with duplication of the entire TK / CAIN region ( exons 18 - 26 ) in A - 172 cells , duplication of exons 18 - 25 is associated with a specific genomic rearrangement between flanking introns .
However , survival analysis showed that the COUP - TFII - positive group had a significantly better OS compared to COUP - TFII - negative group ( 80 . 4 % vs . 57 . 7 % , P = 0 . 0491 ) .
As a result , GSE could inhibit VEGF - induced endothelial cell proliferation and migration as well as sprout formation from aorta ring .
The vessels are derived from quiescient vessels within the fat .
Treatment of NIH3T3 / KDR cells with TKI - 31 blocked VEGF - induced phosphorylation of KDR in a dose - dependent manner .
The expression of Cbl at the plasma membrane targets both Hck and itself for ubiquitination and degradation , requiring an intact RING finger .
Finally , CD47 signaling may suppress angiogenesis because 4N1K significantly inhibited endothelial cell migration and tube formation in vitro .
Additional rats underwent partial hepatectomy , an immunosuppressive procedure known to accelerate the growth of hepatic tumor , following tumor challenge .
However , after they formed tumors in nude mice , every clone acquired high metastatic ability and the gene amplification increased , with elevated mRNA expression .
Interaction between cellular and viral genes in the expression of the RSV - induced transformation - specific cell - surface antigen VCSA .
c - myc is a major target that transduces Myb ' s proliferative signal , as shown by the ability of a c - Myc - estrogen receptor fusion protein alone to also reverse growth arrest in this system .
Using a murine incisional wound healing model this study was carried out to investigate the roles of estrogen and progesterone on macrophage activation during the wound healing response .
Correlation of lymphatic vessel density and vascular endothelial growth factor with nodal metastasis in papillary thyroid microcarcinoma .
TUNEL data are reported as percentage apoptotic cells .
The role of Hes genes in intestinal development , homeostasis and tumor formation .
Bicistronic retroviral vector reveals capacity of v - erbA to induce erythroleukemia and to co - operate with v - myb .
At univariate analysis , overexpression of c - erbB2 did not affect either DFS or OAS ; tamoxifen had a greater effect on reducing the risk of recurrence than of death .
CONCLUSIONS : Galectin - 3C is not overtly toxic , and is efficacious in reducing metastases and tumor volumes and weights in primary tumors in an orthotopic nude mouse model of human breast cancer .
Galpha ( 12 ) , the alpha - subunit of the G12 family of heterotrimeric G proteins is involved in the regulation of cell proliferation and neoplastic transformation .
Androgen signaling through androgen receptor ( AR ) is critical for prostate tumorigenesis .
The long latency of prostate cancer development provides an opportunity to intervene with agents of known mechanisms at various stages of disease progression .
Systemic administration of VEGF or LPS in adult mice resulted in cyclosporine A - sensitive reactivation of the DSCR1s promoter and endogenous gene expression in a subset of organs , including the heart and brain .
BMSVTs exhibited a partially transformed phenotype , demonstrating growth factor independence , altered antigen expression and forming tiny , infrequent colonies in vitro .
Furthermore , the effects of a selective NF - kappaB inhibitor , NEMO - binding domain ( NBD ) peptide , on metastasis in GSAS / N5 - engrafted mice were assessed , and engrafted tongue tumors were immunohistochemically examined .
Analysis of the stability of HAH - cortisol showed that it was stable at pH 7 . 4 and broke down rapidly ( t1 / 2 15 min ) at pH 4 . 8 at 37 degrees C .
In all cases , there was complete concordance between the effects of hypoxia and AdCA5 .
In vivo studies , CT26 cancer cells were implanted into BALB / c mice and groups of mice were treated with vehicle , DATS ( 10 and 50 mg / kg of body weight ) .
The proportion of SMCs surviving in the implanted region was greater ( P less than 0 . 05 ) in the IGF - 1 - transfected group than in the vector or cell controls .
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE : Cerebral cavernous malformations ( CCMs ) are prevalent cerebral vascular lesions involving aberrant angiogenesis .
Elevated levels of diacylglycerol and decreased phorbol ester sensitivity in ras - transformed fibroblasts .
The Kaposi ' s sarcoma - associated herpesvirus ( KSHV ) encodes a G protein - coupled receptor ( vGPCR ) that has been implicated in the initiation of Kaposi ' s sarcoma , identifying vGPCR as an attractive target for preventing Kaposi ' s sarcoma .
Growth inhibition correlated with decreased cellular proliferation and extensive necrosis , and it was accompanied by a decrease in tumor mean vessel density as well as a reduction in serum expression of angioproliferative cytokines .
Multiple myeloma , an incurable plasma cell malignancy , is characterized by altered cellular metabolism and resistance to apoptosis .
The transition between both conformations contributes to the control of glycolysis and is important for tumor cell proliferation and survival .
RESULT : The average IMVD was ( 21 . 50 + / - 8 . 87 ) , and median of AI was 1 . 15 % .
RESULTS : The expression rates of Merlin protein in NSCLC and normal lung tissue sections were 73 . 33 % and 15 . 56 % , respectively ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
DESIGN : Differentially expressed proteins discovered between the two cell lines were identified by mass spectrometry .
However , its transcript has been found in many soft , extracellular matrix - producing tissues ; an osteonectin - related protein was detected in tumor basement membrane .
Eight founder and progeny mice of 5 different lines were monitored for leukemogenesis .
IL - 18 , originally identified as interferon - gamma inducing factor ( IGIF ) , is related to the IL - 1 family in terms of its structure as well as its processing , receptor , signal transduction pathway and pro - inflammatory properties .
CX3CR1 - dependent subretinal microglia cell accumulation is associated with cardinal features of age - related macular degeneration .
Although it is well known that Wnt signaling is frequently dysregulated in melanoma , the functional implications of this observation are unclear .
In transgenic embryos , RPE cells proliferated in the anterior part of the eye and near the optic nerve .
By specifically and potently inhibiting tumor Hsp90 , PU24FCl exhibits wide - ranging anti - cancer activities that occur at similar doses in all tested tumor types .
Recently , there is an increasing number of patents which have been focused on the inhibitors of VEGF action .
We recently identified GEP100 ( BRAG2 ) to be responsible for the Arf6 activation to induce invasion and metastasis , by directly binding to ligand - activated epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) .
Identification of naturally occurring VEGF inhibitors derived from diet would be one alternative approach with an advantage of known safety .
It is concluded that the observed increase in the Na + / K + ratio in ascites tumor cells is connected with their enhanced ability to synthesize lactic acid .
Tunicamycin - treatment resulted in 75 - 90 % inhibition in [ 3H ] mannose incorporation but only 20 - 25 % inhibition in [ 3H ] thymidine and [ 3H ] leucine incorporation .
Hypoxia - induced gene expression in cancer cells has been linked to malignant transformation .
These data also suggest that uPA and PAI - 1 may co - operate in the migratory process by respectively facilitating the attachment to , and subsequent detachment from , vitronectin in the extracellular matrix .
Together , our results provide not only a novel insight into the mechanisms underlying anti - tumor activity of E1A , but also a rationale for the combined HDACi and E1A gene therapy in future clinical trials .
To elucidate the role of N - glycosylation in the functional activity of the universal glucose transporter , Glut - 1 , we investigated effects of the N - glycosylation inhibitor , tunicamycin , on glucose transport by human leukemic cell lines K562 , U937 and HL60 .
RESULTS : The antiapoptotic protein Bcl - 2 was highly expressed by pulmonary endothelial cells in all cases of irreversible PHT but in no cases of reversible PHT , nor in control patients ( p less than 0 . 001 ) .
Converging studies from many investigators indicate that RUNX1 has a critical role in the correct maintenance of essential cellular functions during embryonic development and after birth .
One hTERT transduced BMEC culture underwent a long proliferative lag before resuming proliferation .
Together , the results of this study identify molecular mechanisms that initiate hemangiosarcoma , a key step in understanding safety concerns that can impact drug decision processes , and identified hypoxia as a possible contributing factor for 2 - BE - induced hemangiosarcoma in mice .
The basal phosphorylation of protein kinase C substrate of relative molecular mass ( Mr ) 80 , 000 ( 80K ) is significantly increased in all the ras - transformed cell lines .
Since Akt phosphorylates Chk1 - Ser ( 280 ) , the effect of Erbb2 on phosphatidyl inositol - 3 - kinase ( PI3K ) / Akt signaling during UV - induced cell cycle arrest was determined .
We especially focused on the role of Crk adaptor protein in EphB - mediated signaling .
This chapter provides a new intravital microscopic method for detecting and measuring NO - dependent angiogenesis in a mouse model .
In a xenograft model metronomic CPT - 11 , but not 5 - FU and L - OHP , significantly inhibits HT - 29 tumor growth and microvessel density in the absence of toxicity .
Bmi - 1 expression is elevated in most human gliomas , irrespective of grade , raising the question of whether Bmi - 1 over - expression is sufficient to promote self - renewal or tumorigenesis by CNS stem / progenitor cells .
Because the identity of pulmonary endothelial SOCs is unknown , but mammalian homologues of the Drosophila melanogaster transient receptor potential ( trp ) gene have been proposed to form Ca2 + entry channels in nonexcitable cells , we performed RT - PCR using Trp oligonucleotide primers in both rat and human pulmonary arterial endothelial cells .
VEGF and p53 expressions were observed in 40 % and 53 % of the tumors , respectively .
In only 3 out of 13 cases , representing patients with adenocarcinomas of the stomach receiving chemotherapy , was ras p21 detected at elevated levels , whereas in patients with the following types of cancer no substantial change in serum ras p21 was observed ; nine with breast , 5 colon , 5 lung , 5 ovarian and 5 hepatocellular carcinomas .
The tyrosine kinase inhibitor cediranib blocks ligand - induced vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 3 activity and lymphangiogenesis .
It has also been demonstrated that MTSS1 is involved in the Shh signaling pathway in the developing hair follicle and in basal cell carcinomas of the skin .
In addition , the positivity rate of EphA2 was significantly higher in primary lesions with lymph node metastasis than in those without metastasis ( p = 0 . 0014 ) .
Clusterin gene expression is potently induced in experimental models in which apoptosis is activated , such as rat prostate involution following castration .
Epithelial keratitis and corneal edema also developed in the immunized animals during the first week after virus challenge , but these symptoms rapidly resolved during the following weeks .
In an animal experiment , marrow cells were infiltrated into the walls of long - fibril expanded polytetrafluoroethylene ( ePTFE ) vascular grafts .
CONCLUSION : MCT targeting significantly reduced the viability of U - 87 MG cells mediated by both apoptosis and necrosis .
RESULTS : There was a statistically significant difference between the control and enoxaparine Na groups regarding adhesions .
Changes in plasminogen activator inhibitor - 1 levels in non - small cell lung cancer .
AIM : To determine whether a variety of ciliary body tumours synthesise opticin to characterise further its role in ciliary body health and disease .
Transcriptional activity of HIF - 1 ( hypoxia - inducible factor - 1 ) has been reported to be up - regulated in solid tumors after ionizing radiation ; however , the molecular mechanism underlying the response remains to be elucidated .
BACKGROUND : Abdominal surgery can lead to intra - abdominal adhesions with significant morbidity and mortality .
The eph gene encodes a putative receptor tyrosine kinase for an as yet unknown ligand .
First clinical control with second angiography was performed 6 weeks after irradiation , then in 3 - month intervals .
Gross evaluation included shrinkage and stiffness .
CONCLUSION : Calretinin is a very useful marker for positive identification of normal and tumor mesothelial cells in serous effusions .
Caffeine inhibits adenosine - induced accumulation of hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha , vascular endothelial growth factor , and interleukin - 8 expression in hypoxic human colon cancer cells .
CONCLUSIONS : Irreversible PHT is strongly associated with impaired endothelial cell apoptosis and antiapoptotic signaling from perivascular inflammatory cells .
Endothelial cells bound fluorescein - labeled collagen I fibrils , an interaction specifically inhibited by SMI496 .
Our data suggest that VEGFR2 - mediated regulation of endothelial function is dependent on different but specific Rab - mediated GTP hydrolysis activity required for endosomal trafficking .
CONCLUSIONS : VEGF - A ( 165 ) is one of the major angiogenesis regulators among the ligands ' family of VEGF , whereas its receptors KDR , and most probably Flt - 1 , may contribute to a poor prognosis ( angiogenic ) phenotype , as indicated by their upregulated MRNA levels in stage III neuroblastoma .
Promoter hypermethylation of APC was observed in 54 . 65 per cent ( 47 of 86 ) of cases .
The pentapeptide SFLLR , like thrombin , caused a marked stimulation of angiogenesis in the CAM .
However , the increase in visual acuity is variable , probably due to the extent of RPE damage .
More recent data have demonstrated the existence of two human nm23 gene homologues , nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 , and have shown that deletion of nm23 - H1 alleles occurs in some colon carcinomas associated with poor prognosis .
HIF - 1alpha stabilization and the expression of VEGF isoform 165 and 121 in hypoxia were also reduced by the infection of lentiviral shRNA of TB4 in B16F10 cells .
Angiopoietin / tie - 2 as mediators of angiogenesis : a role in congestive heart failure ?
Tumors of the retinal pigment epithelium metastasize to inguinal lymph nodes and spleen in tyrosinase - related protein 1 / SV40 T antigen transgenic mice .
They also induced local angiogenesis in vivo in an animal model .
PMN - triggered angiogenesis is also blocked by both local injection and daily i . p . administration of the Hyp salt in an interleukin - 8 - induced murine model .
The characteristics of HPCs in PET described herein for the first time offer additional diagnostic criteria and may help especially to differentiate these tumors from meningiomas .
Almost all patients respond to G - CSF with increased neutrophils , reduced infections , and improved survival .
Coexpression of vascular endothelial growth factor and p53 protein in squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus .
CONCLUSIONS : Survivin functions as a novel upstream regulator of mitochondrial - dependent apoptosis , and molecular targeting of this pathway results in anticancer activity via a dual mechanism of induction of tumor cell apoptosis and suppression of angiogenesis .
Taken together , our data indicate that in VHL disease , therapy directed at inhibition of constitutively expressed VEGF induction of angiogenesis by VHL tumors may constitute an effective medical treatment .
Levels of uPA , urokinase - plasminogen activator receptor ( uPAR ) and plasminogen activator inhibitor - 1 ( PAI - 1 ) were measured semiquantitatively in paraffin sections of tumours from 147 patients with NSCLC .
Suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid ( SAHA ) has been approved as a drug to treat cutaneous T cell lymphoma , and the combination of HDACi and other agents have been actively tested in many clinical trials .
With U937 cells , tunicamycin treatment resulted in the appearance of a 30 - 40 kDa band and increased staining of a 45 kDa band .
Overexpression confers an oncogenic potential upon the eph gene .
Use of DNA microarray and small animal positron emission tomography in preclinical drug evaluation of RAF265 , a novel B - Raf / VEGFR - 2 inhibitor .
The absence of iritis , neovascularization , and necrotizing keratitis in the corneas of the immunized animals was particularly striking .
Treatment with pharmacological inhibitors and small interfering RNAs reveal that induction and activation of Sp1 , HIF1alpha , and Stat3 facilitate their nuclear localization and binding to their specific motifs of the VEGF promoter and induce VEGF expression via two independent pathways , DCN / EGFR / phosphoinositide - 3 kinase / AKT and DCN / EGFR / ERK1 / 2 , respectively , in DCN synthesizing MCE cells .
METHODS : Preoperative plasma fibrinogen levels were retrospectively examined in 405 patients who underwent surgery for advanced gastric cancer .
METHODS : MSCs from Sprague - Dawley ( SD ) rats were isolated and cultured in vitro .
IGF - 1 enhances cell proliferation and survival .
In the 380 patients who were ITC negative and showed low VEGFR - 1 expression , synchronous ( at the time of surgery ) and heterochronous ( recurrent ) metastases were not observed .
The truncated fos protein that contains only part of the central region is not phosphorylated in chicken embryo fibroblasts , indicating that phosphorylation of the fos protein is not necessary for the transforming activity .
Thus , in 5T4 - transfected CL - S1 murine mammary cells , 5T4 expression is associated with dendritic morphology , accompanied by abrogation of actin / cadherin - containing contacts and increased motility .
There is a significant increase in the number of apoptotic hepatocytes when they are cultured in the conditioned media .
The experimental studies in vitro and in vivo were performed to investigate the effects of carcinostatic agents in the adhesion of cancer cells to endothelial cells .
VEGF165 mediates formation of complexes containing VEGFR - 2 and neuropilin - 1 that enhance VEGF165 - receptor binding .
Furthermore , the biological activity of FGF - BP is neutralized by monoclonal antibodies suggesting the potential for antibody - based therapeutic targeting .
Furthermore , we show that p53 is activated in virally infected cells to evoke an apoptotic response and that p53 is critical for antiviral defence of the host .
Overexpression of c - Ski inhibited TGF - beta signaling in OCUM - 2MLN cells .
Simultaneously as the growth rate decreased , the cellular uptake of glucose and the density of a class of glucose - reversible binding sites for cytochalasin B on the cell surface were also found to be reduced .
By 21 days post - injury , all activity had returned to near baseline level .
The activity of succinate dehydrogenase was inhibited by 70 % by 3 - BrPA treatment .
In contrast to the results obtained with c - jun , the levels of junB mRNA and protein were found to be reduced two - or threefold in revertant EMS - 1 - 19 .
The synthesis and / or the excretion of this factor in a medium is controlled by the A gene .
In conclusion , GA may have the potential to be an effective agent for prevention and treatment of gastric cancer metastasis .
This prompted us to examine a hypothesis that insulin - like growth factors may be responsible for overexpression of tumor hexokinase .
Induction of the MKP - 1 protein in the MCF10A - Myc and MDA - MB - 231 breast epithelial cell lines was also seen .
Aglycon of rhizochalin from the Rhizochalina incrustata induces apoptosis via activation of AMP - activated protein kinase in HT - 29 colon cancer cells .
The inhibition of migration by HKa is reversed by antibodies to urokinase - type plasminogen activator receptor .
The amount of conjugated amine group onto the microspheres was 1 . 93 + / - 0 . 01 nmol / mg - microspheres , while the amount of heparin was 95 . 8 pmol / mg - microspheres .
The efficacy of the approach may be critically dependent on the intrinsic susceptibility to apoptosis of different tumors .
CONCLUSION : Our observations suggest that DCC / netrin - 1 signaling may commit cells to the transition of endometrial gland architecture or function from a proliferating to a secretory phase .
In addition , expression of c - MYC from a constitutive promoter also abrogated the STAT3 - mediated arrest , and strikingly , cooperated with OSM to promote anchorage - independent growth ( AIG ) , a property associated with malignant transformation .
The reduction in collagenolytic activity was observed in viable cells as well as in conditioned medium .
Aquaporins in human breast cancer : identification and involvement in carcinogenesis of breast cancer .
c - myb is a frequent target of retroviral insertional mutagenesis in murine leukemia virus - induced myeloid leukemia .
CONCLUSION : IMVD may be an important indicator to predict cervical lymphatic metastasis in LSCC .
Additionally , the synergistic apoptotic effects of MOG with As2O3 were detected in HL - 60 and primary AML cells , but not in normal cells , suggesting the selective toxicity of their combination to the malignant cells .
Although evidence suggesting a role for FAK in morphogenesis is accumulating , current uncertainties regarding its cytoplasmic location and its molecular interactions in vivo make it difficult to reach definitive conclusions regarding the significance of its contributions to developmental processes .
EC9706 and EC109 cells were incubated with varying concentrations of aspirin and nimesulide , and the effects on cell proliferation and apoptosis were monitored by 3 - ( 4 , 5 - dimethyl - thiazol - 2yl ) - 2 , 5 - diphenyltetrazolium bromide and flow cytometry .
Tumor Angiogenesis : Initiation and Targeting - Therapeutic Targeting of an FGF - Binding Protein , an Angiogenic Switch Molecule , and Indicator of Early Stages of Gastrointestinal Adenocarcinomas - .
Furthermore , E7 mutant proteins impaired in their ability to bind p600 were transformation defective .
CONCLUSION : BRAF p . Val600Lys mutations were present at a relatively high frequency in this cohort of metastatic melanoma patients ( 27 / 183 , 15 % ) .
The anti - tumour effect of L - NAME after systemic administration was studied in a renal subcapsular CC531 adenocarcinoma model in rats .
Both STX243 and STX140 were capable of retarding the growth of MDA - MB - 231 xenograft tumours ( 72 and 63 % , respectively ) , whereas no inhibition was observed for animals treated with 2 - MeOE2 .
The viral insert mapped to chromosome 17p11 . 2 - 12 , and cellular sequences were duplicated at the site of viral integration .
Strikingly , 5 of 6 familial CCMs showed PTEN promoter methylation ( 83 . 3 % ) , which was significantly higher than in sporadic cases ( 9 . 4 % ; P < 0 . 001 ) .
Protein tyrosine phosphorylation / dephosphorylation is a fundamental mechanism in the regulation of cell proliferation and neoplastic transformation ; this metabolic process is modulated by the opposing activities of protein tyrosine kinases and protein tyrosine phosphatases ( PTPases ) .
METHODS : XTT cell proliferation assay was used for showing cytotoxicity .
There was positive correlation between PTEN mRNA expression and LOH of microsatellites in advanced gastric carcinomas .
In colonic carcinoma specimens , the peritumoral vessels expressed a high density of somatostatin receptors , whereas the neoplastic tissue itself was receptor - negative in many cases .
The biological significance of this regulation of the two major pathways of energy generation by p53 remains to be seen .
Solid tumor therapy : manipulation of the vasculature with TNF .
Two of 12 cell lines formed xenografts in mice .
We show that transgenic expression of CDKs in the embryonic oral ectoderm is specifically retained in undifferentiated cells from the pars intermedia of the adenohypophysis .
The transplantation of old donor - derived MSCs attenuated apoptosis of cardiomyocytes in the peri - infarct region compared with the control group and the effect was elevated in young donor - derived MSCs ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
A synergistic anti - tumour effect of L - NAME is observed in combination with melphalan and / or TNF using ILP .
RESULTS : There was relatively wide variation in the expression of alpha - SMA with the percentage of the area from 0 . 68 to 28 . 15 % ( mean 8 . 48 + / - 5 . 40 % ) .
These results reveal upregulation of an endogenous angiogenesis inhibitor during multi step tumorigenesis and identify enhanced stromal TSP - 2 expression as a novel host anti - tumor defense mechanism .
This suggests that the repression of the N - myc promoter is mediated through the WT1 binding sites .
Short pigment epithelial - derived factor - derived peptide inhibits angiogenesis and tumor growth .
At protein level , VEGF - B and C , Flt - 1 , and KDR were not detectable in tissue lysates , whereas VEGF - A was increased in stages III and IV .
Moreover , the downregulation of c - myc oncogene by an antisense strategy might represent a useful goal for improving the efficacy of this anti - neoplastic drug family .
( 2 ) .
When a confluent monolayer of human umbilical vein endothelial cell line , ECV304 , was denuded , ECV304 at the wound edge expressed Ets - 1 .
These data support a new model for how tumor cells trigger metastasis by perturbing pericyte - endothelial cell - cell interactions .
IGF - 1 - transfected cells demonstrated greater cell proliferation , stimulated angiogenesis , and decreased caspase - 3 activity after simulated ischemia and reperfusion ( P less than 0 . 05 for all groups compared with vector or cell controls ) .
Hepatocyte growth factor ( HGF ) / c - Met signaling is thought to be a key pathway in both melanocyte development and melanoma metastasis .
STUDY DESIGN : Thirty - three archival cytologic specimens from eight patients with histologically confirmed malignant mesothelioma and 13 from patients with metastatic serous effusions were destained and then immunostained with anticalretinin antiserum .
Repeated rounds of mutation , selection , and proliferation may lead to cancer .
There was no correlation between the serum and urine concentrations of IL - 8 and clinical variables , the only exception being the international prognostic index ( IPI ) , which showed a marginal correlation with urine IL - 8 / Cr levels ( P = 0 . 07 ) .
Although AID activity is focused at Immunoglobulin ( Ig ) gene loci , it also targets a wide array of non - Ig genes including oncogenes associated with lymphomas .
PURPOSE : Spironolactone has recently been shown to have suppressive effects on several immunoactive and proinflammatory cytokines .
Sunitinib is an oral multitargeted receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor with antiangiogenic and antitumor activity that mainly targets vascular endothelial growth factor receptors ( VEGFRs ) .
Adenomatoid tumour of the liver .
Immunohistochemistry examinations in the human surgical specimens have shown that a downregulation of TSP - 1 during the progression of cervical carcinogenesis was accompanied by an emergence in the upregulation of stroma markers , alpha - smooth muscle actin ( alpha - SMA ) and desmin .
It has long been noted , however , that hair follicle cycling is associated with prominent changes in skin perfusion , that the epithelial hair bulbs of anagen follicles display angiogenic properties , and that the follicular dermal papilla can produce angiogenic factors .
The difference in diagnostic performance was not significant on receiver operating characteristic analysis ( P > 0 . 4 ) .
As a result , cells are protected from apoptosis and senescence while becoming highly sensitive to glucose deprivation .
Our results indicate that the nuclear phosphatase activity is inhibited by greater than 50 % in Galpha ( 12 ) QL cells compared to vector control cells .
This negative regulation is mediated by the cytoskeleton as the disruption of interactions between the PSMA cytoplasmic tail and the anchor protein filamin A decreases PSMA activity , integrin function , and PAK activation .
The feasibility of such a strategy has now been established through the results of studies over the past decade , and a new discipline called therapeutic angiogenesis has emerged .
Normal and transforming functions of RUNX1 : a perspective .
BACKGROUND : Angiogenesis is essential for tumor growth and relies on the production of angiogenic factors .
Consistent with this hypothesis , inhibition of Erbb2 in v - ras ( Ha ) transgenic mice before UV exposure resulted in both 56 % fewer skin tumors and tumors that were 70 % smaller .
Toxicity , pharmacokinetic , and organ biodistribution studies were performed in nude mice .
This is the largest study to date evaluating COX - 2 inhibitors as adjunctive therapy in haemophilia and suggests that these agents may be an important adjunctive therapy in the management of haemophilia .
In order to study their relation to the metastatic profile and survival , we evaluated the association between pretreatment serum levels of S - 100beta , IL - 6 , IL - 10 and IL - 12 and metastatic site and survival in 50 patients with advanced melanoma who were to receive chemoimmunotherapy .
Ecotropic viral integration site - 1 ( Evi - 1 ) is a nuclear transcription factor , which is essential for the proliferation / maintenance of hematopoietic stem cells ( HSCs ) .
Statistically significant relationship between p53 expression in primary oral cancers and its expression in lymph node metastases ( P < 0 . 02 ) as well as increased expression of Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 in metastatic sites compared with primary tumors could indicate an association of these proteins with oral cancer progression and development of metastases .
Overexpression of these proteins is independent of the transcriptional upregulation of their genes , and occurs only in highly malignant breast cancer cells .
Significant differences were found between the control and experimental fat pads with regard to weight and length .
SV40 Tag transformation of the normal invasive trophoblast results in a premalignant phenotype .
The heterogeneity of nm23 - H1 gene product expression between primary cancers and metastatic lymph nodes was observed in 41 . 3 % .
Tumors display a high rate of glucose uptake and glycolysis .
Identification of a small region of the v - fos gene product that is sufficient for transforming potential and growth - stimulating activity .
Using recombinant viruses that lack only one member of the cluster , we now show that all three BHRF1 miRNAs contribute to B - cell transformation .
Apoptosis was further measured by DNA fragmentation and microscope examination .
Angiogenesis : initiation and control .
Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest is found at the end of this article .
In this study , we demonstrate that SPARC inhibits human arterial smooth muscle cell proliferation stimulated by platelet - derived growth factor or by adhesion to monomeric type I collagen .
Bolus incubation was carried out to determine effects of doxorubicin accumulated during the first 3h , whereas continuous incubation allowed further ( continuous ) exposure to doxorubicin .
TS - 1 is a new , oral anticancer agent composed of two modulators , gimeracil ( CDHP ) and oteracil potassium ( Oxo ) are mixed with tegafur in a ratio of 1 : 0 . 4 : 1 .
N - glycosylation of glucose transporter - 1 ( Glut - 1 ) is associated with increased transporter affinity for glucose in human leukemic cells .
Induction of this DNA - binding activity was accompanied by tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat3 and correlated with Src transformation .
However , it is reasonable to expect that mechanistically complementary combinations of these measures could have a worthwhile impact on survival times and , when used as adjuvants , could improve the cure rates achievable with standard therapies .
Furthermore , transient transfection studies with NIH3T3 cells indicated that the expression of activated Galpha ( 12 ) readily increased the expression of SET protein by 24 h .
The single non - epithelial line induced foci and was found to contain an activated c - Ki - ras gene with a G - - - - A transition in codon 12 .
The result showed that the mechanism of the FPC antineoplastic effect had an intimate relation with its induction to apoptosis and that the result of FPC inducing tumor cell apoptosis had the character of P53 independence .
Our results suggest that TEL acts as a tumor suppressor , in part , by transcriptional repression of stromelysin - 1 .
Evaluation of VEGF expression level with the same tissues was used to establish the antigenic profiles , and the marker of CD34 staining was used as an indicator of microvessel density ( MVD ) .
Some mice in each group were euthanized 24 hours after the end of IR .
In contrast , the conditioned media induce elevated levels of proapoptotic mediators in the Chang hepatocytes .
In vitro cell proliferation , combination studies and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) secretion analyses were performed on endothelial ( HMVEC - d ) and colorectal cancer ( HT - 29 ) cells exposed for 144 h to metronomic concentrations of SN - 38 , the active metabolite of CPT - 11 , L - OHP and 5 - FU .
Here , we investigate S727 phosphorylation of Stat3 and its subsequent effects in prostate cancer development , independent of Y705 phosphorylation , using mutated Stat3 in the human prostate cancer cell line LNCaP .
No CDC4 / FBXW7 mutations were found and loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 did not correlate with ploidy status .
The down - regulation of p21WAF1 closely correlated with poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase cleavage and CPP32 activation .
LDH5 overexpression in cancer cells induces an upregulated glycolytic metabolism and reduced dependence on the presence of oxygen .
INTRODUCTION : Increased angiogenesis in bone marrow is one of the characteristics of chronic myeloid leukaemia ( CML ) , a clonal myeloproliferative disorder that expresses a chimeric bcr / abl protein .
Weaning IL - 2 ( null ) x beta ( 2 ) m ( null ) mice were randomized to receive 0 ( deficient ; n = 40 ) , 2 ( basal requirement ; control ; n = 46 ) , or 8 ( supplemented ; n = 36 ) mg folate / kg diet for 32 weeks .
TP is not only expressed in tumor cells but also in tumor surrounding tissues , such as tumor infiltrating macrophages .
The absence of functional von Hippel - Lindau ( VHL ) tumor suppressor gene leads to the development of neoplasias characteristic of VHL disease , including renal cell carcinoma ( RCC ) .
With the enhancement of FPC concentration , the authors observed chromatin condensation in some phases companying with the characteristic apoptosis .
Expression of KISS1 and MMP - 9 in non - small cell lung cancer and their relations to metastasis and survival .
Similar to in vivo FdG - PET or primary breast cancers , rates of glycolysis were diverse , being higher in cells expressing both c - Myc and HIF - 1alpha and lower in cell lines low or negative in both transcription factors .
The expression of TIMP1 suggests that the anti - proteolytic stimuli may be preponderant in p63 - positive carcinomas .
TEL , a putative tumor suppressor , modulates cell growth and cell morphology of ras - transformed cells while repressing the transcription of stromelysin - 1 .
RESULTS : Our results revealed that docetaxel and ATRA were synergistically cytotoxic and apoptotic in DU - 145 cells , in a dose - and time dependent manner .
Interestingly , cells transformed by FLT3 and BCR / ABL mutations that confer resistance to small - molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors were still sensitive to knockdown of PIM - 2 , or PIM - 1 and PIM - 2 by RNAi .
Finally , Bcl - 2 is significantly increased in the neuroblastoma cells cultured in the conditioned media .
The cells subsequently proliferate and differentiate to form endothelial tubes and capillary - like structures .
To characterize the effects of CK1delta on SV40 - induced mammary carcinogenesis , we generated transgenic mice expressing mutant CK1delta under the control of the whey acidic protein ( WAP ) gene promoter , and crossed them with SV40 transgenic WAP - T - antigen ( WAP - T ) mice .
To further elucidate the biological significance of WT1 in leukemic cell growth , we overexpressed exogenous WT1 in murine M1 myeloblastic leukemia cells using the isopropyl - beta - D - thiogalactoside ( IPTG ) - controlled expression system .
This was accompanied by increased phosphorylation of the VEGF receptor 2 .
Suppressed transformation and induced differentiation of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells by emodin .
The A431 cells exhibited typical in vitro cell adhesion to the endothelial F - 2 cells .
Betulin ( 10 microg / mL ) induces apoptotic cell death , as evidenced by morphological characteristics such as membrane phosphatidylserine translocation , nuclear condensation / fragmentation , and apoptotic body formation .
Lysophosphatidic acid downregulates tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases , which are negatively involved in lysophosphatidic acid - induced cell invasion .
In conclusion , aspirin and nimesulide could inhibit cell proliferation and induce apoptosis in esophageal squamous carcinoma cells .
With the discovery that TGFbeta1 was a potent growth inhibitor of epithelial cells , and the identification of inactivating mutations within the TGFbeta1 signaling pathway in cancers it became clear that TGFbeta1 signaling is a tumor suppressor pathway for early stages of cancer .
Importantly , we show that mouse p10 is able to induce cell cycle arrest in a p53 - dependent manner .
To explore the potential of chemotherapy directed at the tyrosine kinase of p185neu , we have found that emodin ( 3 - methyl - 1 , 6 , 8 - trihydroxyanthraquinone ) , a tyrosine kinase inhibitor , suppresses autophosphorylation and transphosphorylation activities of HER - 2 / neu tyrosine kinase , resulting in tyrosine hypophosphorylation of p185neu in HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells .
Tumor cells express the glycolytic regulator pyruvate kinase subtype M2 ( M2 - PK ) , which can occur in a tetrameric form with high affinity to its substrate phosphoenolpyruvate ( PEP ) and a dimeric form with a low PEP affinity .
Ang1 inhibits the activation of Src by VEGF , the most upstream component of the pathway linking VEGF receptors to VE - cadherin internalization .
Aqueous humor was collected at cataract surgery from 19 diabetic patients and from 13 age - and sex - matched normoglycemic controls .
The latter effect is called reperfusion injury and can cause as much damage as the ischemia .
p53 and PCNA status do not appear to influence topo I expression , and topo I has no apparent association with the acquisition of a metastatic phenotype .
The transformation is a consequence of the ability of viruses to integrate into the host cell ' s DNA and to produce transforming proteins .
Cytokines and growth factors induce tyrosine phosphorylation of signal transducers and activators of transcription ( STATs ) that directly activate gene expression .
Accordingly , the rate of elimination of abnormal proteins was lower in cells lacking a functional VHL gene than in wtVHL - expressing cells .
After cytocentrifugation the specimens were stained in accordance with the alkaline phosphatase anti - alkaline phosphatase ( APAAP ) method .
AQP1 was expressed in cell membranes and its expression was higher in cancer than that in normal tissues .
Thus , pVHL appears to participate in the elimination of misprocessed proteins , such as those arising in the cell due to the unavailability of glucose or to other stresses .
In this study we separated weakly acidic phenolic components from other neutral , acidic and basic components of tobacco smoke condensate ( TSC ) and observed that phenolic fraction of TSC significantly increased the number of colonies of promotion - sensitive JB6 Cl41 cells that showed anchorage - independent growth on soft agar in response to BPDE ( an ultimate carcinogen produced by metabolic activation of the PAH benzo [ a ] pyrene ) .
To investigate the potential role of BI - 1 in promoting cell growth and tumorigenesis , in the present study we overexpressed the BI - 1 gene in NIH3T3 cells using the lentivirus - mediated gene expression system .
However , this modular protein core also binds with relatively high affinity to a number of growth factors and surface receptors , thereby stabilizing cell - matrix links .
Furthermore , it was shown that thiol - containing antioxidants completely blocked MOG - induced mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss and subsequent cell apoptosis , while the inhibition of apoptosis by benzyloxy - carbonyl - Val - Ala - Asp - fluoromethylketone only partially attenuated mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss , indicating that MOG - induced redox imbalance is an early event upstream to mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss and caspase - 3 activation .
Collectively , the experiments define the role of Ang - 2 during tumor angiogenesis and establish a better rationale for combination therapies involving Ang - 2 manipulatory therapies .
We have previously shown that massive apoptosis occurs when wild - type p53 or E2F - 1 expression is induced in glioma .
Thus , nicked beta2GPI exerts dual effects on angiogenesis , that is , nicked beta2GPI promotes angiogenesis in the presence of AS4 . 5 , whereas nicked beta2GPI inhibits angiogenesis at concentrations high enough to neutralize AS4 . 5 .
RESULTS : Survivin expression was noted in 30 ( 81 % ) of breast carcinomas , and in normal breast tissue , in nuclei , and cytoplasm .
We found a significant positive correlation between IL - 8 and estradiol in normal breast tissue and hormone - dependent breast cancer in vivo .
The Hedgehog intercellular signaling pathway regulates cell proliferation and differentiation .
Histological venous invasion ( p less than 0 . 01 ) and distant metastasis ( p less than 0 . 05 ) were significantly correlated with p53 protein expression .
Directed EC migration is a central step in this process and depends on cellular signaling cascades that initiate and control the structural rearrangements .
However , monolayer cultures differ greatly from the complex environmental conditions generated in solid tumors that develop inhomogeneous hypoxic and necrotic regions .
Mitochondrial apoptosis and FAK signaling disruption by a novel histone deacetylase inhibitor , HTPB , in antitumor and antimetastatic mouse models .
To address this issue , an activated neu oncogene was introduced into an immortalized nontumorigenic human breast epithelial cell line ( 184B5 ) .
This inhibition was blocked by the neutralizing anti - TGF - beta 2G7 antibody but not by a nonspecific IgG2 .
These data suggest that 20 - HETE stimulates superoxide formation by pathways other than apocynin - sensitive NAD ( P ) H oxidase , thereby activating MAPK and then enhancing VEGF synthesis that drives EC proliferation .
For this purpose , the presence of COX - 2 and PPARgamma was immunohistochemically examined in 71 epithelial ovarian carcinomas , 18 borderline tumours and 23 benign tumours and the levels of COX - 2 and PPARgamma proteins were determined by enzyme immunoassay in four benign tumours , three borderline tumours and 12 carcinomas .
VTAs can be divided into two groups : antiangiogenic agents and vascular - disrupting agents ( VDAs ) .
From a functional perspective , we observe that caffeine also significantly inhibits the A3 receptor - stimulated cell migration of colon cancer cells .
Both small RNAs contain a latency promoter binding factor consensus recognition sequence located toward their 5 ' ends as well as two potential ICP4 recognition consensus sequences , one in each orientation .
The binding activity of NF - kappaB to DNA was examined in nuclear extracts using Trans - AM NF - kappaB ELISA kit .
Daily i . v . injections of HAH - cortisol at doses causing no apparent toxicity retarded the growth of solid s . c .
Six subclones were randomly selected from H - 3 cells which had been subcultured to passage 22 .
The polyester prostheses utilized were polyester flat ( PF ) and polyester soft three - dimensional ( PS ) ; the PP mesh utilized was Marlex .
Here we show that transcription of the p53 gene is induced by IFN - alpha / beta , accompanied by an increase in p53 protein level .
This review focuses on the application of therapeutic angiogenesis for treating ischemic muscle disease and includes a critical evaluation of the parameters and limitations of current procedures .
Treatment with the combination of 1B3 and DC101 in BxPC - 3 xenograft - bearing mice resulted in tumor regression in 58 % of mice compared to that in 18 % of mice treated with DC101 alone .
Using c - FLIP anti - sense oligonucleotides to down - regulate c - FLIP we sensitized DU145 cells to CH - 11 - induced apoptosis .
Vimentin expression was found preferentially in tumors with high GF ( greater than 15 % Ki - 67 positive by immunoperoxidase staining ) and low ER levels ( less than 60 fmols / mg protein by a monoclonal enzyme immunoassay ) .
However , its role in tumor - associated lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic metastasis remains unclear .
This increase was dependent on CD4 ( + ) T - cell activities ; however , it occurred independent of the induced eosinophilia associated with allergen provocation .
CONCLUSION : This study identifies specific components of the Robo signaling apparatus that work together to guide directional migration of endothelial cells .
DNA microarray analysis of treated tumor xenografts revealed significantly decreased expression of genes regulating glucose and thymidine metabolism and revealed changes in apoptotic genes , suggesting that the imaging tracers FDG , 3 - deoxy - 3 - [ ( 18 ) F ] fluorothymidine , and annexin V could serve as potential imaging biomarkers for RAF265 therapy monitoring .
Abnormal beta - catenin expression was associated significantly with positive 14 - 3 - 3zeta expression .
We also examined cell proliferation , migration , and anti - apoptotic activity in response to stromal cell - derived factor ( SDF ) - 1alpha and evaluated SDF - 1alpha / CXCR4 signaling pathways .
Several cell types in a tissue secrete IL - 8 .
Possible role of cyclooxygenase II in the acquisition of ovarian luteal function in rodents .
Kaplan - Meier survival curves showed a statistically significant worse prognosis for patients with high vascular grade , but no difference was observed between low and medium vascular grade .
TESTING THE HYPOTHESIS : Stimulation of dormant micrometastases by primary tumor removal is known to occur in animal models .
At later stages , branches of radial arteries penetrated the periphery forming an extensive mesh of capillaries on the concave surface .
The DSCR1s promoter was similarly induced in the endothelium of tumor xenografts .
Expression of cyclooxygenase ( COX ) - 2 plays a key role in tumorigenesis and development and peroxisome proliferator - activated receptor gamma ( PPARgamma ) has been implicated in the control of COX - 2 expression in some tissues .
The effect of platelets on the content of urokinase plasminogen activator ( uPA ) and VEGF in SKOV3 cell conditioned medium was measured using an ELISA assay .
Significantly , phenotypic reversion of malignant cells via reexpression of HoxD10 , which is lost in malignant progression , significantly attenuated VEGF expression in a hypoxia - inducible factor 1alpha - independent fashion and reduced EC migration .
[ Radiologic - pathologic correlations in breast diseases ]
We also observe that SHP - 2 knockdown impairs the dopamine - regulated inhibition of VEGF - induced phosphorylation of VEGFR - 2 and , subsequently , Src phosphorylation and migration .
Tumour - specific distribution of BRCA1 promoter region methylation supports a pathogenetic role in breast and ovarian cancer .
Our data align osteonectin with other matrix - components and adhesion molecules in affecting potential metastatic spreading of transformed cells .
Treatment of cells with PKC inhibitors also potentiated anchorage - independent growth of BPDE treated cells on soft agar .
After 15 days , the clots were examined by histology and electron microscopy .
Our results suggest that a key change in the metastatic hybrids , relative to non - metastatic parental LTA cells , is induction of expression of 72 kDa type IV collagenase .
Consequently , hPNAS - 4 has potential as a new gene therapy for human ovarian cancer .
This is particularly true for inflammatory bowel diseases ( IBD ) , such as ulcerative colitis and Crohn ' s disease , which show a major increased risk for colorectal cancer .
IGF - 1 mRNA ( n = 10 / group ) and protein levels ( n = 6 / group ) were higher ( P less than 0 . 05 for all groups ) at 3 , 7 , and 14 days compared with controls .
In vitro migration and invasion were assessed in these cells , and the NF - kappaB activities and expression of NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules were also examined .
Moreover , there is a positive correlation between phosphoS727 - Stat3 expression and Gleason score in these prostate cancer tissues ( P = 0 . 05 ) .
The roles of miscrovascularity density ( MVD ) and VEGF expression in the progression of oral squamous cell carcinoma ( OSCC ) have been controversial .
Finally , mutating the Sp1 binding sites within the VEGF promoter or inhibiting ERK decreased VEGF promoter activity in M - CSF - treated human monocytes .
This study suggests that the expression of HSP27 is frequently promoted in patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma and should be considered an independent prognostic factor of oral squamous cell carcinoma patients .
The apoptotic molecule bax is induced in p53 - mediated apoptosis , but bax is not induced in E2F - 1 - mediated apoptosis in glioma cells .
Recent reports suggest that elevated levels of plasminogen activator inhibitor - 1 ( PAI - 1 ) may contribute to tumour progression .
The development of hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) presumably occurs in multiple steps and is influenced by numerous factors .
Dietary conjugated linoleic acid ( CLA ) has been shown previously to inhibit rat mammary carcinogenesis .
Atypically , abundant capillaries were observed ; however , the cystic proliferation of epithelioid cells with vacuoles and immunohistochemical profile of the epithelioid element were consistent with hepatic adenomatoid tumour .
Recent evidence suggests the existence of endothelial precursors in adult bone marrow cells , but it is unclear whether those precursors have a role in tumor neovascularization .
METHODS : Receptor proteins were visualized by immunohistochemistry on 5 - mum sections of paraffin - embedded tissue .
In oral keratinocytes BAG - 1L , but not BAG - 1M and BAG - 1S , enhanced VDR transactivation in response to 1alpha , 25 - dihydroxyvitamin D3 .
They also serve as important intracellular signaling molecules that amplify the synovial inflammatory - proliferative response .
CONCLUSION : c - kit protein is an important diagnostic marker of gastrointestinal stromal tumor .
We did a blind prospective study in gastric cancer to assess the significance of isolated tumor cells ( ITC ) and to test the hypothesis that vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 1 ( VEGFR - 1 ) is expressed within the bone marrow at tumor - specific , premetastatic sites .
Hence , GM - CSF and IL - 3 enhance the intracellular metabolism of ara - C and its incorporation into the DNA of leukemic cells leading to a higher antileukemic activity of ara - C on clonogenic leukemic cells ( CFU - L ) .
In epithelial cells , EphA2 and E - cadherin co - localize to sites of cell - cell contact , and it has been shown that E - cadherin regulates EphA2 .
These biologic insights are important arguments to advocate the use of low - dose radiotherapy as an effective palliative treatment for follicular lymphoma .
We investigated the roles of the prostaglandin synthases cyclooxygenase ( COX ) I and COX - II in angiogenesis and progesterone production in the newly formed CL , using inhibitors of the COX enzymes and the gonadotropin - induced pseudopregnant rat as a model .
Transformation of mammary epithelial cells ( MECs ) from the normal to the neoplastic stage requires the dysregulation of tumor suppressor genes and proto - oncogenes .
We hypothesized that the hemolysis induced by 2 - BE would result in local tissue hypoxia , a well - documented trigger for endothelial cell proliferation leading to hemangiosarcoma .
These results demonstrate endogenous gene regulation by BAG - 1L by potentiating nuclear hormone receptor function and suggest a role for BAG - 1L in 24 - hydroxylase regulation of vitamin D metabolism and the cellular response of oral keratinocytes to 1alpha , 25 - dihydroxyvitamin D3 .
MDM2 overexpression was manually classified as > 5 % nuclear staining .
Cytokines play an important role in creating an inflammatory microenvironment , which is now considered a hallmark of cancer .
In this review , we outline the known mechanisms that impair p53 itself and its immediate regulators or target genes during melanomagenesis .
It is well established that tobacco smoke is a tumor initiator , but we asked whether it also acts as a tumor promoter once malignant initiation , such as caused by K - ras activation , has taken place .
A characteristic of malignant cells is their capacity to invade their surrounding and to metastasize to distant organs .
Various studies using the mouse , quail / chick , and frog have uncovered a number of signals that guide these complex processes but many gaps still exist in our understanding of the mechanisms by which the embryonic vasculature is built .
Repetitive cycles of hypoxia and reoxygenation associated with changes in synovial perfusion are postulated to activate hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha and nuclear factor - kappaB , two key transcription factors that are regulated by changes in cellular oxygenation and cytokine stimulation , and that in turn orchestrate the expression of a spectrum of genes critical to the persistence of synovitis .
These observations suggest that stem / progenitor cells in the mammary gland may be especially susceptible to oncogenic transformation .
More apoptotic tumor cells were seen under the transmission electron microscope .
Emergence of the RUNX1 mutations was detected at diagnosis or before the acquisition of trisomy 21 during disease progression .
The prosurvival autophagic response of myeloma to nutrient deprivation or to nucleoside analogue treatment has not been described previously .
The capillary density in group 1 ( ischemia + L - NIL ) was significantly different from group 2 ( ischemia + saline ) ; group 1 : 360 . 33 + / - 77 . 02 , group 2 : 549 + / - 81 . 85 / mm2 , p < 0 . 05 ) . In addition , expression of HIF1alpha was significantly increased in ischemic groups ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
The fact that the apoptotic and antiproliferative functions of p53 can be dissociated in certain mutants also suggests another level of complexity in the relationships between p53 inactivation and neoplasia .
However , the role of IL - 17F in intestinal tumorigenesis has not been addressed .
The success of current systemic and intravesical therapeutic agents , such as cisplatin , thiotepa , Adriamycin , mitomycin C , and bacillus Calmette - Guerin , is limited with recurrence rates reduced to 17 - 44 % .
Angiogenesis is a fundamental process to normal and abnormal tissue growth and repair , which consists of recruiting endothelial cells toward an angiogenic stimulus .
Treatment of ovarian cancer cell lines with recombinant LL - 37 stimulated proliferation , chemotaxis , invasion and matrix metalloproteinase expression .
VEGF mRNA expression was also observed in Ve - and OMP - stimulated HGF .
OBJECTIVE : To study the activation of sterol regulatory element binding protein ( SREBP ) and its critical role in endothelial cell migration .
Hox 1 . 4 and Hox 1 . 3 , genes abundantly induced in nontransformed clones after 3 days of RA treatment , are expressed in N - ras - transformed cells only after 10 days of RA treatment .
TEL is biallelically disrupted in acute leukemia , and loss of heterozygosity at the TEL locus has been observed in various cancers .
METHODS : Human fat tissue fragments from surgery were placed in 96 - well plates , embedded in fibrin thrombin clot and overlaid with cell culture media containing 20 % fetal bovine serum .
Brn - 3a , a neuronal transcription factor of the POU gene family : indications for its involvement in cancer and angiogenesis .
A role for NF - kappaB in cancer cells appears to involve regulation of cell proliferation , control of apoptosis , promotion of angiogenesis , and stimulation of invasion / metastasis .
Compared to controls , co - culture of MDA - MB - 231 cells with stromal or osteoblastic cells induced an increase in number of osteoclasts and TRAP activities .
Inhibition of p38 SAPK reduced CBP HAT activity and its recruitment to the SRF . MRTF - A complex , whereas enforced induction of p38 by upstream activators ( e . g . MKK3 and MKK6 ) enhanced both CBP HAT and CCN1 promoter activities .
Multiple studies are ongoing to determine the clinical benefits of aflibercept in cancer patients .
No alteration was detected in either of these regions in any phase of the disease .
There was also an up - regulation of Bax , which altered the Bax : Bcl - 2 ratio , which may be responsible for mitochondrial depolarization reported to be involved prior to the induction of apoptosis .
Shear stress - induced transcriptional suppression of Tie1 is mediated by a negative shear stress response element , localized in a region of 250 bp within the promoter .
In juvenile brca2 mutants , oocytes failed to progress through meiosis , leading to female - to - male sex reversal .
These are exciting new functions of vitamins that nobody could have predicted only a few years ago .
Six edentulous patients ( aged 60 + / - 9 years ) with a severely atrophic mandible underwent bone augmentation with distraction osteogenesis .
Furthermore , both PLD1 and PLD2 transformants , but not vector - transfectants , induced undifferentiated sarcoma when transplanted into nude mice .
Pak1 - DLC1 interaction plays an essential role in cell survival , which depends on Pak1 ' s phosphorylation of DLC1 on Ser88 .
Treatment of these T - cells with 5 - azacytidine resulted in the induction of DR surface antigen expression , the appearance of DR alpha mRNA , and the partial demethylation of the DR alpha DNA sequences .
Given its recently - described role as an inflammatory mediator , VEGF could also contribute to the inflammatory responses observed in cerebral ischemia .
We developed reference intervals for serum and urine IL - 8 level in 131 control individuals .
Our data suggest that KISS1 and MMP - 9 may serve as potential prognostic and therapeutic markers in lung cancer .
We also show that VEGFR1 + cells express VLA - 4 ( also known as integrin alpha4beta1 ) , and that tumour - specific growth factors upregulate fibronectin - - a VLA - 4 ligand - - in resident fibroblasts , providing a permissive niche for incoming tumour cells .
METHODS : Preoperative serum was collected from 107 gastric cancer patients and 33 normal controls .
RASSF1A is a tumor suppressor gene .
METHODS : Of the 456 eligible and analyzable patients ( parent cohort ) , adequate archival diagnostic tissue specimens from 108 patients were available for MDM2 analysis ( MDM2 cohort ) .
Cells were treated with curcumin and examined for cell viability by MTT assay .
SVLT mutants , defective either in the Rb binding site , near the N - terminal end , in a region that affects binding to p53 , or in the nuclear transport signal , were also employed to determine whether the interference was especially dependent on these functional domains .
Estrogen is crucial in breast carcinogenesis and tumor progression .
The in vivo role of 9E3 / CEF4 may be involved with chemotaxis and metastasis , rather than with direct stimulation of mitogenicity .
Anti - endosialin was capable of preventing pericyte tube formation in culture and inhibited migration .
Prostate - specific membrane antigen regulates angiogenesis by modulating integrin signal transduction .
The interaction of VEGF and its receptors at gene and protein levels in neuroblastoma remains widely unknown .
Since the intrinsic resistance of prostate carcinoma likely reflects a low susceptibility to drug - induced apoptosis , in this study we explored the possibility of sensitizing prostate carcinoma cells to apoptosis by combination of TRAIL with camptothecins .
This model suggests that forced expression of CDK4 sensitizes cells and synergizes with a second change resulting in tumor development .
We compared a treatment schedule were cells were bolus incubated for 3h with doxorubicin followed by 24h in drug - free medium , with a continuous doxorubicin treatment schedule for 24h .
Ovarian cancer is a silent killer , and shows early extensive tumor invasion and peritoneal metastasis .
This review will discuss the regulation of expression of IGF - 1 , IGF - 1R , and IGF binding proteins in the vasculature and summarize evidence implicating involvement of this system in vascular diseases .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : U - 995 was designed to study human umbilical vein endothelial cell ( HUVEC ) migration and proliferation in vitro and angiogenesis induced by TNF alpha in chicken chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) .
BI - 1 ( Bax inhibitor - 1 ) , an apoptosis - inhibiting gene belonging to the Bcl - 2 protein family , plays an important role in mitochondrial apoptosis pathway to suppress Bax - induced apoptosis .
Furthermore , induction of MKP - 1 correlated with the inhibition of extracellular signal - regulated kinase ( ERK1 / 2 ) and c - Jun N - terminal kinase ( JNK ) activity , whereas p38 activity was minimally affected .
3 - BrPA ( 3 - bromopyruvate ) is an alkylating agent with anti - tumoral activity on hepatocellular carcinoma .
After removal of fibroblasts by exposure to G - 418 , the tumor cells exhibited increased metastatic ability and human K - ras oncogene mRNA , suggesting an intimate interaction between H - 3 cells and fibroblasts influencing the function of transfected human K - ras oncogene .
There was a significant correlation between E - cadherin and alpha - catenin expression , but no correlation was found between p53 expression and E - cadherin or alpha - catenin expression .
The expression of MMP - 2 / 9 of AGS cells was inhibited by 2 . 0 microM of GA .
Antiangiogenesis therapy might have a role in reducing regional metastasis .
The role of p53 in pigmentation , tanning and melanoma .
Loss of p21 completely abolished the cell cycle arrest function of p53R172P and accelerated tumor onset in Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) mice .
We have reported important benefits and survival with an immunotherapy schedule in patients with endocrine - dependent breast cancer and distant metastases .
Hence , the down - regulation of p21WAF1 , together with the alterations in Bax and cdk2 as observed in our studies , may define a novel mechanism by which ciprofloxacin inhibits tumor cell growth and induces apoptotic cell death .
CONCLUSIONS : DCE - MRI permits a noninvasive evaluation of tumour microcirculation and in particular of its dynamic characteristics and vascularity before and after antiangiogenic treatment .
It activated multicaspases , and increased the activities of caspase - 8 and caspase - 9 in both MG - 63 and SaOS - 2 cells .
PURPOSE : Members of the transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - beta superfamily play critical roles in regulation of various cellular functions .
Recent in vitro and in vivo evidence suggest that they may also have direct antitumor effects via induction of apoptosis , inhibition of the invasive potential of tumor cell lines in vitro , inhibition of angiogenesis , and reduction in tumor growth indirectly via effects on accessory cells .
We show that PSMA inhibition , knockdown , or deficiency decreases endothelial cell invasion in vitro via integrin and PAK , thus abrogating angiogenesis .
Intrauterine growth restriction ( IUGR ) still accounts for a large incidence of infant mortality and morbidity worldwide .
NF - kappaB / Rel transcriptional pathway : implications in pancreatic cancer .
Interference with Dll4 - Notch signaling may be particularly desirable in tumors that have highly induced Dll4 - Notch pathway .
Brain pericytes in culture had higher levels of endosialin / TEM 1 than TEMs - 2 , - 3 , - 4 , - 5 , - 7 , and - 8 .
A portion of bilateral radial bones of a rabbit were removed as free bone grafts , whose periostea were peeled off .
In synchronized cultures at the beginning of the mitotic cycle , the bulk of ATP resynthesized via glycolysis is utilized for the synthesis of biopolymers , whereas that at the end of the S - phase and in the G2 - phase is utilized for cation transport across plasma membranes .
The inhibition of cultured myoblast differentiation by the simian virus 40 large T antigen occurs after myogenin expression and Rb up - regulation and is not exerted by transformation - competent cytoplasmic mutants .
The selective antimetastatic agents p - ( 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 1 - triazeno ) benzoic acid potassium salt ( DM - COOK ) , 5 - ( 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 1 - triazeno ) imidazole - 4 - carboxamide ( DTIC ) and ( + / - ) 1 , 2 - di ( 3 , 5 - dioxopiperazin - 1 - yl ) propane ( ICRF - 159 ) have been shown to markedly depress the formation of spontaneous hematogenous metastases in mice bearing s . c .
The resulting clusters were correlated to patients with or without lymph node involvement .
The angiogenic switch during tumorigenesis is thought to be induced by a change in the balance of pro - angiogenic and anti - angiogenic factors .
Nerve growth factor ( NGF ) has been demonstrated to support survival and differentiation of neuroblastoma ( NB ) cells by activation of the TrkA receptor .
The functional benefit of cell transplantation after a myocardial infarction is diminished by early cell losses .
VEGF and COL - IV levels were found to be significantly higher for pattern A ( 110 mus pulse width ) compared to pattern B ( 5 mus pulse width ) at 14 days , implying that pattern A may be more effective at promoting angiogenesis .
A significant amount of type I HK RNA was also found expressed in cancer cell lines .
CONCLUSION : Not only tumor cells but also TAMs secrete the VEGF - C in OSCC , and TAMs may play a major role in peritumoral lymphatic neoangiogenesis and lymphatic metastasis .
In vivo , tumors derived from cell clones expressing high levels of VEGF displayed significantly enhanced angiogenesis and more aggressive growth .
Human LRP - 1 reversed the changes in protein expression associated with LRP - 1 deficiency ; however , the endocytic activity of LRP - 1 was not involved .
Ultrastructural evidence reveals that at 8 weeks the grafts are composed primarily of collagen and fibroblasts with rough endoplasmic reticulum and vesicles .
Furthermore , specific downregulation of either caspase - 9 , Bax , or Bak by siRNA effectively reduced PARP cleavage and caspase - 3 activation .
Vitamin E inhibits experimental carcinogenesis and tumour angiogenesis .
Three patients developed deep vein thromboses and two heavily pretreated patients developed treatment - related acute myelogenous leukemia or myelodysplasia after 3 . 7 and 12 months of therapy .
These diagrams show the relative rates of glycolysis , the tricarboxylic acid cycle , electron transport , and the malate - aspartate shuttle in these tumors .
The putative metastasis suppressor genes , NME1 ( nm23 - 1 ) and NME2 ( nm23 - 2 ) , were examined in a model system we developed to approximate the dissemination of melanoma from a primary skin tumor .
RESULTS : Angiostatin inhibited endothelial cell proliferation by 50 - 60 % .
Reporter gene analyses with a series of nested deletion mutants of the hepatoma type II hexokinase promoter show that a significant fraction of the total activation observed under hypoxic conditions localizes to the distal region where the overlapping HIF - 1 / E - box sequences are located .
We found a ser122 - pro mutation in the NME2 gene of metastatic IV Cl 1 cells .
These angiogenic activities are neutralized by a specific antibody against CCL16 .
SAHA downregulated Bcl - XL and upregulated proapoptotic BH3 - only protein Bim , whose expression was further enhanced by E1A in cancer cells .
Like in Apc ( Delta716 ) mice , loss of the wild - type Apc allele was confirmed for all polyps examined in the Apc ( neoR ) and Apc ( neoF ) mice .
This study investigated the effects of dietary folate on the development of UC - associated colon cancer in the IL - 2 ( null ) x beta ( 2 ) m ( null ) mice .
beta2 - glycoprotein I ( beta2GPI ) is proteolytically cleaved by plasmin in its domain V ( nicked beta2GPI ) , resulting in binding to plasminogen .
With a p53 - null cell line ( EU - 4 ) , although doxorubicin treatment arrested cells in G ( 2 ) / M , survivin expression was unchanged , and cells underwent only limited apoptosis .
Moreover , in vitro experiments demonstrated a direct effect of ethanol on the response to hypoxia in endothelial cells , as ethanol diminished nuclear hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha protein levels .
Parental NIH 3T3 - derived cells had both 72 kDa and 92 kDa gelatinase activities , and LTA - derived cells had either aberrantly sized approximately 90 kDa activity alone or neither enzyme activity .
Electronmicroscopically , thrombus formation in the primary site prevented tumor invasion and metastasis formation .
We conclude that the transforming properties of the activated Ha - ras gene in Rat - 1 cells can be suppressed at the post - translational level by the presence of the genome from diploid embryonic rat fibroblasts but additional controls of expression of the transforming gene are likely to exist .
Patients ' reading vision could not be saved for a long - term run .
Our data suggest that p - XSC inhibits multiple signaling pathways in prostate cancer , likely accounting for the downstream effects on proliferation and apoptosis .
The results imply that various different proteins may lead to HCC metastasis together .
These results indicate a possible role of L - NAME for the treatment of solid tumours in a systemic or regional setting .
A higher percentage of cells expressing topo I in primary colorectal cancer was significantly associated with advanced age ( P = . 040 ) .
These findings also illustrate an operational link between VPF / VEGF induction of EC gene expression and VPF / VEGF enhancement of microvascular permeability , suggesting that these distinct biological activities may act accordingly to stimulate EC migration during angiogenesis .
VEGF - A ( 165 ) , B , C , Flt - 1 , and KDR were analyzed .
The cyclin - dependent kinase inhibitor p21WAF1 level was found to be decreased within 12 h of ciprofloxacin treatment and disappeared completely when HTB9 cells were treated with 200 microg / ml ciprofloxacin for 24 h .
The rapid down - regulation of Tie1 by shear stress changes and its rapid binding to Tie2 may be required for destabilization of endothelial cells in order to initiate the process of vascular restructuring .
Assays of electrophoretic mobility , DNA - binding specificity , and antigenicity indicated that Stat3 or a closely related STAT family member was constitutively activated by the Src oncoprotein .
Development of obesity is associated with extensive modifications in adipose tissue involving adipogenesis , angiogenesis and extracellular matrix proteolysis .
It suggests that osteopontin plays an important role in human glioma progression .
[ Expression of Merlin protein in non - small cell lung carcinoma and the clinical significance ] .
Fifty distinct different protein spots were analyzed with online LC - ESI - MS / MS .
Detection of lymphovascular invasion in early breast cancer by D2 - 40 ( podoplanin ) : a clinically useful predictor for axillary lymph node metastases .
METHODS : Human umbilical endothelial cells were treated with angiostatin or thalidomide and bFGF - induced proliferation was assessed with the MTT assay .
The cell cycle progression and sub - G1 population were analysed by flow cytometry .
OBJECTIVE : Dependence on glycolysis is a hallmark of malignant tumors .
In the present study , we developed the first specific inhibitors of the pyruvate kinase isoenzyme type M2 and present evidence that these inhibitors moderately decelerate tumor cell proliferation .
Adenovirus - mediated gene transfer of endostatin in vivo results in high level of transgene expression and inhibition of tumor growth and metastases .
DMBA maxima were significantly higher than those of DMBA + radiation .
Expression of SPARC was significantly correlated with the expression of VEGF and MVD in colon cancer tissues .
Collectively , hypoxia conditioning induced tumor cell migration by TB4 expression - dependent HIF - 1alpha stabilization .
In vitro studies , the results indicated that DATS induced morphological changes and induction of apoptosis in CT26 cells .
CONCLUSIONS : PE is a useful prognostic predictor of CR and OS for AML / MDS patients .
Although the number of mutations in the APC and beta - catenin genes in our CRC cases was very low , the study confirms the role of epigenetic gene silencing of the pivotal molecular gladiator , APC , of the Wnt pathway in the development of CRC in the Kashmiri population .
BACKGROUND : Mesenchymal stem cells ( MSCs ) transplantation is of therapeutic potential after ischemic injury in both experimental and clinical studies .
Since both cell lines remained non - tumorigenic in nude mice , these properties indicate that they attained a premalignant phenotype .
Insulin treatment also increased VEGF protein levels in conditioned RPE cell media in a dose - dependent manner with a median effective concentration of 5 nM .
These results suggest that L - Car , possibly via its free radical scavenging and antioxidant properties , ameliorates MTX - induced oxidative organ injury and inhibits leukocyte apoptosis .
RESULTS : The apoptosis rate of the old donor - derived MSCs group was significantly higher than that of the young donor - derived MSCs group under conditions of ischemia and anoxia ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the effect of adenovirus - mediated endostatin gene transfer on transplanted lung cancer in mice and its mechanism of action .
Matrix metalloproteinase activity , determined using a quenched fluorescence substrate assay , increased during early healing ( 3 - 8 weeks ) compared to controls , and then decreased between 24 and 36 weeks after surgery ( p less than 0 . 05 until 24 weeks , Mann - Whitney U - test ) .
Surprisingly , functional p53 was retained in vivo , even after transplantation , whereas explanted tumor cells displayed rapid allele loss in vitro .
Furthermore , p53 overexpression by tumors was almost twice as common in the RSCM group as in the RSCB group .
However , when the same cells were exposed to step - wise increases of TGF - beta concentration in their culture medium , the development of TGF - beta resistance was accelerated .
Taken together , our results suggest that the induction of de novo lipid synthesis by androgen requires the transcriptional up - regulation of HK2 and PFKFB2 , and phosphorylation of PFKFB2 generated by the PI3K / Akt signalling pathway to supply the source for lipogenesis from glucose in prostate cancer cells .
We conclude that anti - angiogenic action of thalidomide is due to direct inhibitory action on VEGF secretion and capillary microvessel formation as well as immunomodulatory influence on EA . hy 926 cells migration and adhesion .
The integration of vascular grading in clinical trials on adjuvant chemotherapy and / or radiotherapy could substantially contribute in defining groups of operable patients who might benefit from cytotoxic treatment .
We examined the status and regulation of semaphorins and their receptors in human ovarian cancer cells .
The response to taxol and heparin - steroid was similar to that of the HPVAM , a validated angiogenesis assay .
The second most prevalent urological malignancy in middle aged and elderly men is bladder cancer , with 90 % of the cases being transitional cell carcinomas .
MPs also play a role in tumor angiogenesis .
However , during each phase of the disease , low levels of TGF - beta RII were detected when compared with the hematopoietic cells of normal donors .
We previously characterized a secreted fibroblast growth factor - binding protein ( FGF - BP ) as a chaperone molecule , which binds to various FGFs , enhances FGF - mediated biochemical and biologic events and importantly is a crucial rate - limiting factor for tumor - dependent angiogenesis .
These models may have clinically relevant implications , particularly for the tailoring of therapeutic strategies targeting telomerase .
To better understand the activity of cediranib against VEGFR - 3 and its associated signaling events compared with its activity against VEGFR - 2 , we used the receptor - specific ligands VEGF - E and VEGF - C156S .
Allergen - induced respiratory inflammation facilitates and / or elicits the extravasation of proinflammatory leukocytes by well - understood mechanisms that mediate the movement of multiple cell types .
Autotaxin ( ATX ) , a potent tumor motogen , augments invasive and metastatic potential of ras - transformed cells .
There was also a direct correlation between the presence of choroidal neovascularization and size of the PED ( P = 0 . 03 ) .
Left ventricular capillary length density ( mm / mm ( 3 ) ) increased gradually with alinidine administration ; a 15 % increase after 2 weeks and a 40 % increase after 3 weeks of alinidine treatment were documented .
Our aim was to compare the angiogenesis associated with subcutaneous adipose tissue ( SAT ) and visceral adipose tissue ( VAT ) from the same obese patients in an in vivo model .
Further , we implemented a noninvasive molecular imaging technique to facilitate the assessment of the metastatic process .
We now report that six different genes of the cluster HOX 1 are sequentially induced by RA in a similar temporal pattern , beginning with genes at the 3 ' end of the cluster .
Augmented lymphangiogenesis was observed within tumors when HEC1A / VEGF - C cells were inoculated .
Intriguingly , two recent papers have shed new light into this unexplored field , indicating that p53 plays a key role in TGF - beta - induced growth arrest and , unexpectedly , in the developmental effects of TGF - beta in early embryos .
All slides were screened for the presence of LVI .
The heat shock proteins ( HSPs ) centered and NF - kappaB centered networks were also enriched in the result , which may imply the key function of inflaming on metastasis .
In vivo studies after dosing on Days 6 , 7 , and 8 demonstrated the same reductions in nucleic acid synthesis and a moderate reduction in protein synthesis .
Immunohistochemistry with 27 primary antibodies was performed in 100 formalin - fixed paraffin - embedded samples of invasive ductal carcinomas .
Two patients presented both RUNX1 mutations and RUNX1 - PRDM16 fusion .
Mutation positive GIST showed higher frequency of adjacent tissue invasion , metastasis and recurrence as compared with mutation negative ones .
We show that LRP - 1 deficiency in murine embryonic fibroblasts ( MEFs ) is associated with increased levels of type III collagen and pigment epithelium - derived factor , which accumulate in the substratum surrounding cells .
Due to the importance of this pathway , it is clear that p53 disruptions may relate directly to a patient ' s prognosis .
To address this , the Severe Chronic Neutropenia International Registry ( SCNIR ) used its large database of chronic neutropenia patients treated with G - CSF to determine the incidence of malignant myeloid transformation in the two disorders , and its relationship to treatment and to other patient characteristics .
High expression of VEGF correlated with a shorter overall survival ( log rank , p = 0 . 042 ) .
We demonstrate for the first time that ERK5 signaling not only is involved in EC survival and stress response but also controls migration and morphology of EC .
VEGF165 or AdCMV . beta gal ( 2 x 10 ( 10 ) pfu ) was resuspended in 0 . 5 mL Matrigel and injected subcutaneously into mice .
Bone marrow - derived mesenchymal stem cells ( BM - MSC ) have been demonstrated to be an attractive therapeutic cell source for tissue regeneration and repair .
A key factor in the response of cancer cells to chemotherapeutic drugs is the activation of the apoptotic pathway , a pathway that is often impaired in chemoresistant colon cancer cells .
The patient received a prescription for 100 mg Ultralan to be taken daily for 3 days and then tapered in 3 day steps .
Prostate cancer dissemination is difficult to detect in the clinic , and few treatment options exist for patients with advanced - stage disease .
FM - MSC were obtained from Lewis rats and had surface antigen expression and multipotent potential partly similar to those of BM - MSC .
Activation of PKA ( cAMP - dependent protein kinase ) by androgen increased phosphorylation of CREB [ CRE ( cAMP - response element ) - binding protein ] , which in turn bound to CRE on the promoter of the HK2 gene resulting in transcriptional activation of the HK2 gene .
CONCLUSIONS : PLGA microspheres with an open porous structure allowed significant amount of heparin immobilization and bFGF loading .
Vascularization of subcutaneous Matrigel implants as well as tumor angiogenesis were both inhibited in PECAM - 1 - null mice .
Collectively , our results provide strong biochemical and genetic evidence of a central role for alpha2beta1 integrin in experimental and developmental angiogenesis .
Osteonectin transcript and metastatic behavior in v - Ki - ras transformed fibroblasts .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is known to be operative in the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy .
VEGF was also increased in parallel to enhanced IGF - 1 expression .
G45 antibody treatment induced SCC tumor apoptosis , decreased SCC tumor proliferation , and markedly impaired human SCC tumorigenesis in vivo without affecting normal tissue adhesion .
As antagonists were used the tripeptide FPR and non - peptide 1 , 4 - disubstituted piperazine derivatives .
HIFs are also expressed during normal development ; for example , HIF - 2alpha is specifically expressed and appears to be involved in the development of the murine sympathetic nervous system ( SNS ) .
The mice were treated by intratumoral injection of 2 x 10 ( 9 ) pfu Ad - mEndostatin .
However , functions of HMGA2 in tumorigenesis are not fully understood due to limited knowledge of its targets in tumor cells .
Vascular development is dependent on various growth factors and certain modifiers critical for providing arterial or venous identity , interaction with the surrounding stroma and tissues , hierarchic network formation , and recruitment of pericytes .
Abnormal expression of E - cadherin and beta - catenin may be a molecular marker of submucosal invasion and lymph node metastasis in early gastric cancer .
2ME2 resulted in decreased nuclear HIF - 1alpha - binding activity and affected the expression of downstream genes , such as bid , a proapoptotic bcl - 2 family member , and vascular endothelial growth factor , a proangiogenic cytokine .
We hypothesized that 1 ) MCT expression in malignant tumors may differ from normal tissue in quantity , isoform , or both ; and 2 ) silencing MCT expression would induce intracellular acidification , resulting in decreased proliferation and / or increased cell death .
These findings identify c - MYC as an important molecular switch that alters the cellular response to OSM - mediated signaling from tumor suppressive to tumor promoting .
The region of the LTR identified here as being important in trans activation has recently been shown to be a critical determinant of the leukemogenicity and latency of Moloney murine leukemia virus .
Examination of checkpoint pathway activation upstream of Cdc25a revealed Erbb2 activation did not alter Ataxia Telangiectasia and Rad3 - related / Ataxia Telangiectasia Mutated activity but increased inhibitory phosphorylation of Chk1 - Ser ( 280 ) .
CONCLUSION : These results suggest that 16 Gy of conventionally fractionated external beam irradiation slows down the visual loss in exudative AMD for only a few months .
This analysis revealed a higher expression of vessel maturation and stabilisation factors ( placental growth factor , PDGFB1 , angiopoietin 1 ) in CC - RCC with high MVD , a group of CC - RCC highly enriched in low nuclear grade CC - RCC , with low ECP % .
We show here that NIH3T3 cells acquire tumorigenic ability in nude mice and make colonies in soft agar with a viral LTR ( Long Terminal Repeat ) - driven artificial expression of the eph gene to a high level .
Placed in the framework of other recently published work , the observations of Villani et al . both raise questions about the cell of origin for basal cell cancers and define additional putative therapeutic and preventive targets for this disease .
Glucose decreased the rate of glutamine utilization by 34 % .
We previously showed that disruption of TGF - beta signaling by dominant - negative TGF - beta type II receptor in a diffuse - type gastric carcinoma model accelerated tumor growth through induction of tumor angiogenesis by decreased expression of the anti - angiogenic factor thrombospondin ( TSP ) - 1 .
Staining was effected by the standard avidin - biotin horseradish peroxidase system .
Cells infected with this mutant display a 36 , 000 - dalton protein that is phosphorylated to a considerably lesser extent than cells infected with wild - type virus .
Hedgehog signaling in the murine melanoma microenvironment .
On the 8th day of serum - free culturing , only the higher molecular weight protein - band of about 45 kDa was clearly induced and accumulated in detached cells and apoptotic bodies in which PARP was activated .
Dopamine administration leads to increased VEGF - induced phosphorylation of SHP - 2 and this increased phosphorylation parallels the increased phosphatase activity of SHP - 2 .
We previously reported that VEGF induces DSCR - 1s expression in endothelial cells , which in turn negatively feeds back to attenuate endothelial cell activation .
Furthermore , Ang II stimulated sFlt - 1 production in a dose - and time - dependent manner from human villous explants and cultured trophoblasts but not from endothelial cells , suggesting that trophoblasts are the primary source of sFlt - 1 during pregnancy .
In contrast , VEGF121 , which does not bind to NRP1 , did not support complex formation .
HYPOTHESIS : This study was designed to compare coronary collateral circulation ( CCC ) in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy ( PDR ) with that in patients without DR .
Although short treatments with LeTx only modestly affected cell proliferation , sustained treatment markedly reduced cell numbers .
In the current report , we tested the sensitivity of the c - myc - overexpressing cells ( Rat 6 / c - myc ) to two additional chemicals : 5 - azacytidine and MnSO4 .
Only a subset of patients is suitable for laser coagulation .
To investigate whether bee venom ( BV ) induces apoptosis , the 3 - ( 4 , 5 - dimethylthiazol - 2 - yl ) - 2 , 5 - diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay , terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase - mediated dUTP nick end - labeling assay , 4 , 6 - diamidino - 2 - phenylindole staining , flow cytometric analysis , and DNA fragmentation assay were performed on NCI - H1299 lung cancer cells treated with BV .
It focuses on the role of IL - 18 modulation in tumours , infections and autoimmune and inflammatory diseases .
It is synthesised and secreted by the ciliary body epithelium ( CBE ) from the initiation of CBE development in the embryo , and production continues throughout life .
Thus , Fas could be involved in bovine lactoferrin - mediated inhibition of tumor development .
The authors show that resection of the primary osteosarcoma tumor enhances progression of pulmonary metastasis in animal osteosarcoma models .
Supernatant from cultures of Ve - and OMP - stimulated HGF strongly induced VPE .
Tumour angiogenesis : its mechanism and therapeutic implications in malignant gliomas .
The ras - encoded proteins are similar to regulatory G - proteins and are candidates for the unknown G - protein that modulates phosphatidylinositol ( PI ) turnover .
Inhibition of energy - producing pathways of HepG2 cells by 3 - bromopyruvate .
This indicates that the strategy may be a useful therapeutic avenue for treatment of patients with malignant glioma .
Invasion assay and migration assay showed that the invasion and migration of CNE1 - GL cell were higher than those of CNE1 cells ( P < 0 . 01 ) .
Ectopic localization of mitochondrial ATP synthase : a target for anti - angiogenesis intervention ?
Here , we demonstrate that HIF - 2alpha protein is selectively present in human fetal week 8 . 5 SNS paraganglia .
In summary , LPA is likely a key component for promoting ovarian metastasis in vivo .
Coexpression of the progesterone receptor with mutant K - Ras led to suppression of tumorigenicity and inhibition of the activation of ER .
Therefore , understanding these signaling mechanisms may provide us with novel ways to develop strategies for treating clinical diseases induced by these cytokines .
In the face fo the fatal outcome , new approaches to the therapy have been established .
These results also suggest therapeutic implications concerning Wnt signaling inhibitors .
Impact of tumor cell VEGF expression on the in vivo efficacy of vandetanib ( ZACTIMA ; ZD6474 ) .
Thus the results obtained by 31P and 13C MRS correlated with the differentiation state of H4 and H5 spheroids and tumors .
Prognostic value of angiogenesis in operable non - small cell lung cancer .
Integrin alpha5beta1 immobilized on a ProteoChip was used to screen new antagonistic peptides from multiple hexapeptide sub - libraries of the positional scanning synthetic peptide combinatorial library ( PS - SPCL ) .
CONCLUSIONS : Fluconazole plus adjunct high - dose prednisolone treatment was most effective when administered 9 days after infection .
Consistent with these apoptotic effects , our results showed that sunitinib inhibited phosphorylation of Akt and mTOR and was followed by a reduction of S6K1 , which is a well - known target of mTOR .
This induction of Ets - 1 may be relevant for reendothelialization by regulating the expression of certain genes .
Transfection with TSP - 1 and purified TSP - 1 added to NIH3T3 cells did not alter the protein levels of alpha - SMA and desmin but significantly inhibited matrix metalloprotease - 2 activity .
Here we present PU24FCl , a representative of the first class of designed Hsp90 inhibitors .
Induction of Id - 1 by FGF - 2 involves activity of EGR - 1 and sensitizes neuroblastoma cells to cell death .
The insulin - conditioned RPE cell media stimulated capillary endothelial cell proliferation , an effect that was completely blocked by anti - VEGF neutralizing antibody .
METHODS : From June 2004 to December 2007 , 132 patients received diagnosis and treatment in our hospital .
We have examined this hypothesis using a model that measures the neovascularization of an implanted foreign material .
These alterations bore similarities to abnormalities in differentiation observed in naturally occurring squamous epithelial malignancies .
This resulted in formation of tumors , which were pigmented and of epithelial origin .
Studies with polymerase inhibitors suggest that this LTR transcript , designated let ( LTR - encoded trans activator ) , is a product of RNA polymerase III .
Knockdown of PLCbeta3 in HUVEC cells affects IP3 production , actin reorganization , migration and proliferation ; whereas migration is inhibited , proliferation is enhanced .
Tumors of H4 cells were well perfused , unlike tumors of H5 cells which were highly necrotic .
CONCLUSION : Osteopontin siRNA can inhibit U251 cells invasion via the down - regulation of uPA , MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 levels , and promote apoptosis through induction of Bax expression and inhibition of Bcl 2 level .
A putative progestin - response element was identified in the human TSP - 1 promoter , which is consistent with the hypothesis that a progestin - PR complex might directly regulate transcription of the TSP - 1 gene in human cells .
In 17 rabbits , a 2 - cm strip of latissimus dorsi was woven into the parascapular fat pad on one side , with the contralateral fat pad serving as a control .
PURPOSE : The goal of this research was to evaluate a potential therapeutic agent for breast cancer based on galectin - 3 that has been implicated in tumorigenicity and metastasis of breast cancer .
Grape seed extract inhibits angiogenesis via suppression of the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway .
Coexpression of PIM - 1KD and PIM - 2KD abrogated growth factor - independent growth of Ba / F3 transformed by several PTKs , including BCR / ABL .
In down modulated growing cells , PDBu caused almost complete inhibition of EGF binding , whereas in down modulated stationary cells , minimal inhibition of EGF binding by PDBu was observed .
Furthermore , the expression of M2 - PK - binding peptide aptamers moderately reduced the growth of immortalized NIH3T3 cell populations by decelerating cell proliferation , but without affecting apoptotic cell death .
Mechanistically , it reduced expression of molecular markers of cell proliferation ( Ki67 ) and angiogenesis ( factor VIII ) , antiapoptotic factor Bcl - 2 , cell - cycle progression regulator cyclin D1 , and survival factor AKT1 .
Whereas the ligands were increased in stages III and IV , the receptors were upregulated in stage III only .
Thrombin decreases the ability of endothelial cells to attach to basement membrane proteins .
CONCLUSION : The optimal approach to the treatment of colorectal cancer depends on several considerations , including patient - specific factors .
Interestingly , a survey of a clinical breast cancer surgical database showed that the incidence of asthma was higher among patients with lung metastases .
Efficacy was demonstrated particularly for chronic synovitis and pain and no serious adverse events occurred .
A marginally significant association was also noted between the h - MVD and patient survival ( P = . 056 ) .
Moreover , the lymph nodes close to the salivary glands were enlarged , and histology showed that they had activated follicles .
The aim of this study was to compare angiogenesis parameters in low nuclear grade ( n = 87 ) vs high nuclear grade CC - RCC ( n = 63 ) .
In this study , the role of the proprotein convertase furin in PLAG1 proto - oncogene - induced salivary gland tumorigenesis was investigated .
Mast cells were found to be unique among the peritoneal leukocytes by virtue of their capacity to enhance profoundly the proliferation of a variety of tumors in vitro .
For efficacy studies , nude mice bearing orthotopically implanted tumors derived from breast cancer cell line MDA - MB - 435 were treated with galectin - 3C or a vehicle control i . m . twice daily for 90 days .
Both cell lines showed reduced expression of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteases ( TIMP ) - 1 , while TIMP - 2 and plasminogen activator inhibitor ( PAI ) - I expression was was also reduced in RSVT2 / C cells , thus contributing to their hyperinvasiveness .
Zebrafish Robo4 rescues both Rho GTPase homeostasis and serum reduced chemotaxis in robo4 knockdown cells .
The number of retinal vascular findings was not significantly correlated with serous elevation of the retina .
Continuous ( 24h ) treatment with 5 microM doxorubicin resulted in cell cycle arrest in G0 / G1 phase that was neither accompanied by phosphorylation and activation of p53 nor enhanced expression of p21 .
Twenty mature male New Zealand white rabbits ( 3 kg weight ) were employed to evaluate the effects of two empirically selected stimulation paradigms applied continuously for 7 - 21 days , using each animal as its own control .
N - myc is coexpressed with WT1 in the developing kidney and is overexpressed in many Wilms ' tumors .
[ 13C ] Lactate production from [ 13C ] glucose , with no detectable uptake of [ 13C ] alanine , indicated that energy production in H5 spheroids was primarily via glycolysis .
Angiogenic activity in samples of patients from the control group was generally inhibitory due to PEDF , and inhibition was blocked by neutralizing antibodies to PEDF .
When TB4 expression in B16F10 cells was inhibited by the infection with small hairpin ( sh ) RNA of TB4 cloned in lentiviral vector , tumor cell migration was retarded .
We tested whether as well as inhibiting leukocyte elastase ( LE ) activity , Hyp might be effective in containing both polymorphonuclear neutrophil ( PMN ) leukocyte recruitment and unfavorable eventual tissue responses .
Increasing evidence suggests that EMT plays a specific role in the migration of cells from a primary tumor into the circulation and may provide a rationale for developing more effective cancer therapies .
The aim of the present study was to investigate the properties of VEGF expression in human gingival fibroblasts ( HGF ) culture .
RESULTS : Histology demonstrated C - cell hyperplasia in five patients ( aged 4 - 13 years ) , unilateral medullary microcarcinoma in six ( aged 9 - 17 years ) and a bilateral medullary microcarcinoma in three cases ( aged 17 - 24 years ) .
Normal adult vasculature is generally quiescent in nature , with endothelial cells dividing approximately every 10 years .
CONCLUSION : Immunostaining with D2 - 40 significantly increased the frequency of detection of lymphatic invasion compared to conventional H . E . - staining in early breast cancer .
In contrast , neither VEGF mRNA nor secreted protein was found in uninfected HUVECs or RASMCs or in cells infected with the control vector AdCMV . beta gal ( where beta gal is beta - galactosidase ) .
The level of VEGF expression correlated inversely with the degree of splenomegaly ( Pearson , r = - 0 . 400 , p = 0 . 011 ) .
The serum level of CEA was reduced from 172 . 7 ng / ml to 8 . 1 ng / ml after TS - 1 treatment .
Delayed addition of GM - CSF , but not FBS , permitted partial rescue of the cells , inhibiting increasing rates of accumulation of fragmented DNA .
We have examined the tyrosine phosphorylation of a major cellular protein of Mr 36 , 000 in cells infected with a panel of partially transforming mutants of Rous sarcoma virus .
RESULTS : Blood vessels initiated growth and elongated from the fat tissue fragments over 15 days .
Consequently , increased adhesion of cancer cells to endothelial cells was observed by the treatment of carcinostatic agents .
Baseline and pentagastrin - stimulated calcitonin levels were preoperatively determined in all cases .
The accumulation was inhibited with a nonmetabolizable glucose analog , 2 - deoxy - d - glucose , through the suppression of radiation - induced phosphorylation of Akt in the reoxygenated regions .
These accelerated relapses occur within 10 months of surgery for untreated patients .
We previously reported that the murine fibroblast cell line LTA is tumorigenic but non - metastatic , and is non - responsive to a transfected H - ras oncogene .
Glioma tumor stem - like cells promote tumor angiogenesis and vasculogenesis via vascular endothelial growth factor and stromal - derived factor 1 .
In contrast , MMP - 9 expression was higher in stage III - IV NSCLC cases compared to stage I - II tumors ( p < 0 . 05 ) and higher in NSCLC cases with metastasis than those without metastasis ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
However , other experimental data indicate that NF - kappaB can play a tumor suppressor role in certain settings and that it can be important in promoting an apoptotic signal downstream of certain cancer therapy regimens .
Expression of nm23 - H1 gene product in metastatic lymph nodes was also unrelated to patients survival .
In the present study this region is shown to contain a gene encoding a protein of 40 kilodaltons in HTLV - I and 37 kilodaltons in HTLV - II .
We propose that cytolytic effector and related proteins produced by putative NK and some CD8 + CD56 + postthymic T - cell lymphomas , probably in conjunction with other mechanisms , may effect massive tumor cell apoptosis .
In this study we investigated the serum VEGF level ( s - VEGF ) in patients with renal cell carcinoma ( RCC ) .
Higher platelet concentrations may expose beneficial effects of PRP .
In the present study we examined the possibility that the revertant phenotype resulted from mutations that altered the expression or activities of the c - jun or junB proto - oncogenes .
Microvessel density and ECP % were inversely correlated ( Rho = - 0 . 26 , P = 0 . 001 ) .
Our study reveals a novel link between HMGA2 and the regulation of human telomerase reverse transcriptase ( hTERT ) , the catalytic subunit of telomerase , which offers critical insight into how HMGA2 contributes to tumorigenesis .
The authors concluded that , as also in the study of Northern blotting , the expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA significantly correlated inversely with lymph node metastasis in CBM , while the expression of nm23 - H2 mRNA not .
To understand the molecular basis of carcinogenesis from the beginning to the full acquirement of malignancy , factors concerned with carcinogenesis were categorized into three groups : those guarding and stabilizing genomes , those regulating cell proliferation , and those conferring resistance to various micro - environmental stresses .
Tumor necrosis factor alpha ( TNF - alpha ) , Fas ligand , and Bcl - 2 , are measured with immunohistochemistry .
RESULTS : LOH of D10S541 , D10S583 and D10S1687 was found in 37 . 5 % ( 21 / 56 ) of advanced gastric cancers .
Mammographic patterns of microcalcifications depend on their physiopathological process ( necrosis , secretion ) , and the shape of clusters ( round , triangular ) typifies their anatomical site of origin ( lobular , ductal ) .
The collagen receptor , uPAR - AP / Endo - 180 , is also increased in LRP - 1 - deficient MEFs .
The kinase reactions showed preference for ATP and MgCl2 instead of GTP or MnCl2 .
However , the function of bFGF in parenchymal cells remains to be determined .
PURPOSE : Recent studies of cancer metastasis have focused on the role of premetastatic gene expression and circulating tumor cells .
The results suggest that somatostatin and somatostatin receptors may play a regulatory role for hemodynamic tumor - host interactions , possibly involving tumor stroma generation , tumor environment , angiogenesis and , particularly , vascular drainage of poorly differentiated neoplasms .
BACKGROUND : The coagulation function in patients with pancreatic carcinoma is abnormal and the reason is not very clear .
Uncultured peripheral blood T - cells from human T - cell leukemia - lymphoma virus - infected individuals expressed DR antigens at a low level , and the DR alpha locus was partially unmethylated .
Surprisingly , TSP - 2 expression was strongly upregulated in the mesenchymal stroma of wild - type mice throughout the consecutive stages of tumorigenesis whereas the angiogenesis factor , vascular endothelial growth factor , was induced predominantly in tumor cells .
Analysis of associations among studied proteins revealed positive correlation between Bcl - xL and Bax in primary tumors ( P < 0 . 03 , r = 0 . 307 ) .
Expression of ING4 is significantly reduced in gliomas as compared with normal human brain tissue , and the extent of reduction correlates with the progression from lower to higher grades of tumours .
Thalidomide [ alpha - ( N - phthalimido ) - glutarimide ] is known to be a potent inhibitor of angiogenesis , but the mechanism of its inhibitory action remains unclear .
The results were comparative to those of Northern blotting of the same cases .
Application of clonal analysis .
Thirty - two genes were selected encoding molecules involved in endothelial cell activation , particularly fibrinolysis , vascular tone , OS , angiogenesis and also inflammation .
The simian virus 40 ( SV40 ) large tumor ( T ) antigen is sufficient to transform cells in cultures and induce tumors in experimental animals .
Normal cells contain suppressor gene ( s ) which safeguard these cells against transformation by the product of the transforming Ha - ras - 1 oncogene .
Three weeks later , 2 x 10 ( 6 ) cells from three groups were implanted into the scar .
Domain 5 ( D5 ) of cleaved high molecular weight kininogen ( HKa ) inhibits angiogenesis in vivo and endothelial cell migration in vitro , but the cell signaling pathways involved in HKa and D5 inhibition of endothelial cell migration are incompletely delineated .
The present study used JB6 P + mouse epidermal cells and AP - 1 - luciferase reporter transgenic mice to identify whether exposure to Cum - OOH caused activation of AP - 1 , oxidative stress , depletion of antioxidants and tumor formation during two - stage carcinogenesis .
Cytogenetic examination of Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) p21 ( - / - ) sarcomas and lymphomas revealed aneuploidy and chromosomal aberrations that were absent in Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) malignancies .
The positive rates of expression of MMP - 9 in CNE1 and CNE1 - GL cells were 30 . 2 % and 98 . 2 % , respectively ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
It is suggested that MMP - 9 may have a role in the LMP1 - induced acceleration of invasion and metastasis of NPC cells .
Although both hypomorphic heterozygotes developed intestinal polyps , tumor multiplicities were much lower than that in Apc ( Delta716 ) mice , heterozygotes of an Apc null allele .
BACKGROUND : Patients with recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa ( RDEB ) have deficiencies of collagen type VII and have elevated levels of fibroblast collagenase , and a greatly increased risk of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma .
The WNT / TCF target genes HOXB9 and LEF1 are identified as mediators of chemotactic invasion and colony outgrowth .
The different tumorigenic potential of SV40 in WAP - T and WAP - mutCK1delta / WAP - T tumors was also reflected by a significantly different expression of various genes known to be involved in tumor progression , specifically of those involved in wnt - signaling and DNA repair .
PI3K / Akt - dependent transcriptional regulation and activation of BMP - 2 - Smad signaling by NF - kappaB in metastatic prostate cancer cells .
The cell type specific glycosylation protects Sp1 and HIF1alpha from proteosome degradation and plays an important and novel role in the regulation of VEGF in DCN transfected MCE cells .
To explore the gene expression changes that occur downstream of ELK - 1 dephosphorylation , we used a combination of temporal gene expression data and promoter element analyses .
RESULTS : PCR and chimeric BMP - 2 and BMP - 4 luciferase assays demonstrate that NF - kappaB confers robust and selective activation of BMP - 2 in p65 overexpressing or rhTNF - alpha - stimulated PC cells .
Insulin - induced vascular endothelial growth factor expression in retina .
In this study , the expression of the cadherin - catenin complex and p53 was studied in early gastric cancer .
The cells were labeled with luciferase , a bioluminescence imaging reporter gene , to enable optical imaging .
Mice primed with dimethyl - benz [ a ] anthracene ( DMBA ) were topically exposed to Cum - OOH ( 82 . 6 micromol ) or the positive control , 12 - O - tetradecanoylphorbol - 13 - acetate ( TPA , 17 nmol ) , twice weekly for 29 weeks .
The TB animals had significantly lower plasma glucose and higher blood lactic acid levels compared with NTB animals .
Patterns of X - chromosome inactivation , mutations in the K - ras gene , mutations or allelic loss of the p53 gene , or human papillomavirus detection were identical in both endometrial and ovarian lesions in three of the cases suggesting that those three cases represented single primary tumors with metastases .
Our objectives were to determine the safety and efficacy of rofecoxib in treating acute haemarthrosis , chronic synovitis , target joints and pain .
PURPOSE : To optimize the method of treating choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) associated with age - related macular degeneration ( AMD ) .
The restriction of BRCA1 promoter region hypermethylation to breast and ovarian cancer is consistent with a pathogenetic role of BRCA1 promoter methylation in these tumours .
There is a crucial need to identify parameters that can predict a tendancy to metastatic spread to allow better prognostic evaluation and therapeutic approach .
PTTG overexpression correlated with lymph node metastasis ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
In vitro studies also suggest progesterone may play a role in modulating inflammation .
The other induced genes revealed a whole set of biologically meaningful genes related to macrophage activation and TH1 immune response .
BACKGROUND & # 38 ; OBJECTIVE : Previous study shows that both vascular endothelial growth - C ( VEGF - C ) and tumor - associated macrophages ( TAMs ) are related to lymphatic metastasis .
However , mutant WT1 ( R394W ) which has a mutation in the DNA binding domain could not repress the N - myc promoter .
On the other hand , glutaminolysis did not inhibit glycolysis .
Angiopoietin - 2 ( Ang - 2 ) is prominently up - regulated in the host - derived vasculature of most tumors , making it an attractive candidate for antiangiogenic intervention .
An intradermal angiogenesis assay was used to demonstrate that a 4 - day treatment with vandetanib ( 50 mg / kg / day ) was able to significantly inhibit blood vessel growth induced by both parental and high VEGF - expressing tumor cell clones .
Treatment with 25 mg / kg cyclopamine significantly attenuated BrdU incorporation in tumor cells threefold ( P less than 0 . 001 ) , in tumor related endothelial cells threefold ( P = 0 . 004 ) , and delayed tumor growth by 4 days .
RESULTS : The percentage of patients being bone metastases free at 12 mo was 60 % in the zoledronic acid and 10 % in the control group ( p less than 0 . 0005 ) , while the percentages at 18 mo were 20 % and 5 % respectively ( p = 0 . 0002 ) .
Conversely , knockdown of endogenous FOXO3a expression reduced PI3K / Akt activity .
Electrical stimulation ( ES ) has been recommended as a adjunctive therapy , however optimal treatment paradigms have not been established .
This difference in invasiveness was not caused by differences in gelatinase production , which was constant within each group of transfectants .
Similarly to mouse p15 ( INK4B ) , p10 expression is also induced by oncogenic insults and transforming growth factor - beta treatment and acts as a cell cycle inhibitor .
These results suggest the possibility that BV may exert an anti - tumor effect on human lung cancer .
ELISA found the presence of vascular endothelial growth factors ( VEGF ) both in the tested oral cancer cells and NOK .
One of these mutants ( CU2 ) increases the rate of glucose transport only slightly and does not render the infected cells fully anchorage independent or tumorigenic ( although other transformation parameters are fully induced ) .
UK infusion prior to 5 - fluorouracil increased tissue concentration of antitumor agent .
The role of the pro - inflammatory peptide , LL - 37 , and its pro - form , human cationic antimicrobial protein 18 ( hCAP - 18 ) , in cancer development and progression is poorly understood .
Increased urokinase plasminogen activator ( uPA ) levels are increased in a number of malignancies and have been correlated with decreased disease - free interval and decreased overall survival .
Phospholipase D ( PLD ) has been suggested to play an important role in a variety of cellular functions .
Highly metastatic IV Cl 1 cells expressed approximately 5 fold lower levels of protein encoded by NME genes than non - metastatic IV Cl 3 cells .
Upon retroviral transduction of the mouse c - myc gene , Rat 6 cells showed mildly altered morphology and formed microcolonies in soft agar ; furthermore , they could be transformed by BP and MNNG to form large colonies in agar ( Hsiao et al . ( 1992 ) Mol . Carcinogenesis , 5 , 140 - 154 ) .
CONCLUSION : The low expression or absence of stromal SPARC was an independent prognostic factor for poor prognosis of colon cancer .
Tie1 is an orphan tyrosine kinase receptor expressed almost exclusively in endothelial cells and is required for normal vascular development and maintenance .
The pharmacokinetics of STX243 were examined at two different doses using adult female rats .
Our previous in vitro studies in a rat model indicated that insulin - like growth factor - I ( IGF - I ) is a potent angiogenic agent for fetal lung endothelial cells .
CONCLUSION : Abnormal E - cadherin expression is a possible marker of submucosal invasion in differentiated - type early gastric cancer and absent beta - catenin staining could be used as a predictor of lymph node metastasis in both types .
The results showed that expression levels of both nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 mRNA varied in normal buccal mucosa , leukoplakia , adjacent nontumorous mucosa , submandibular gland , CBM and lymph nodes with or without metastasis .
RESULTS : There was no significant difference in the median PE level between AML / MDS patients and the normal controls .
In contrast , osteoprotegerin ( OPG ) inhibits osteoclast development .
All - trans retinoic acid ( ATRA ) could potently inhibit the growth of prostate cancer cells in vitro and its combination with various anticancer agents results in increased cytotoxicity .
RESULTS : Proteomic findings indicated that adenosine triphosphate synthase alpha chain was up - regulated , whereas annexin II , annexin V , beta ( 2 ) - tubulin , and profilin 1 were down - regulated .
Statistically significant differences were observed between groups 1 and 4 and between groups 1 and 3 regarding the hydroxyproline content of the abdominal wounds .
Apoptosis is a regulated form of cell death that may be triggered by natural killer ( NK ) or cytotoxic T cells , which effect target cell lysis by cytolytic effector and related proteins through complex intracellular signals .
Cooperative transformation by c - MYC and OSM required PI3K and AKT signaling , showing the importance of multiple signaling pathways downstream of the OSM receptor in defining the cellular response to cytokines .
We have provided convincing preclinical evidence that HTPB is a potent HDAC targeted inhibitor and is thus a promising candidate for lung cancer chemotherapy .
The expression of Merlin protein was not associated with the pathological type , gender , P - TNM stage , differentiation and lymph node metastasis ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
PURPOSE : Tumor fibroblasts ( TF ) have been suggested to play an essential role in the complex process of tumor - stroma interactions and tumorigenesis .
Plasmid DNA encoding each of the three principal human VEGF isoforms ( phVEGF121 , phVEGF165 , or phVEGF189 ) was applied to the hydrogel polymer coating of an angioplasty balloon and delivered percutaneously to one iliac artery of rabbits with operatively induced hindlimb ischemia .
Inhibition of the autocrine angiotensin system with the converting - enzyme inhibitor or the receptor antagonist also leads to increased expression of the proto - oncogene c - src : pp60c - src mRNA increased 7 - 11 - fold , c - src protein 3 - fold , and c - src kinase activity 2 - 3 - fold .
A feasibility study was carried out to develop the Ahn / Mustoe lapine wound model for systematic investigation of the effects of electrical stimulation on ischemic wound therapy .
On strips of all widths , ECs tended to migrate in the direction of strips .
Minimal contribution of marrow - derived endothelial precursors to tumor vasculature .
RESULTS : Of the 13 treated patients , 10 ( 77 % ) had a radiologically demonstrated partial response and 3 ( 23 % ) had stable disease .
In 32 evaluated breast cancer patients with endocrine - dependent distant metastases treated with a new immunotherapy schedule ( cyclic administration of beta - interferon and interleukin - 2 ) , cellular immunity , cytokines and CRP were related to the clinical course .
Endothelialization was present at anastomotic sites , but other areas were covered with fresh thrombi .
The steroidal - based drug 2 - ethyloestradiol - 3 , 17 - O , O - bis - sulphamate ( STX243 ) has been developed as a potent antiangiogenic and antitumour compound .
Four human cervical cancer cell lines were treated for 24 h with various concentration of paclitaxel , and the sensitivity was analysed by an MTT assay .
Together , our findings demonstrate a novel role of TSP - 1 to inhibit tumor - stroma reaction that could be attributed to the blockage of activated fibroblasts from invading cancer cells .
In contrast , in the presence of GM - CSF or FBS , apoptosis was enhanced upon addition of CHX or Act D .
PURPOSE : Heparin immobilized porous poly ( D , L - lactic - co - glycolic acid ) ( PLGA ) microspheres were prepared for sustained release of basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) to induce angiogenesis .
A specific histone deacetylase ( HDAc ) inhibitor , trichostatin A ( TSA ) , alleviates Evi - 1 - mediated repression of TGF - beta signaling , suggesting that HDAc is involved in transcriptional repression by Evi - 1 .
In contrast , knockdown of Pbx1 did not impair bone marrow transformation by E2A / HLF or AML1 / ETO , suggesting that Pbx1 is specifically required for the maintenance of bone marrow transformation mediated by Evi - 1 .
Endothelial cell staining was heterogeneous and varied in different regions .
Is it possible that CD47 may also negatively affect cerebral endothelial cells ?
Elevated c - src expression with angiotensin system inhibition may act to enhance intimal wound closure and to reduce luminal thrombogenicity in vivo .
An immediate decrease in corneal clouding was observed in groups treated with additional low - or high - dose prednisolone from day 9 after inoculation .
Enhanced expression of PTEN by gene transfer is sufficient to reverse the malignant phenotype of ovarian cancer cells and transfection of ovarian cancer cells with wild - type PTEN gene might be another novel approach for therapeutic intervention in ovarian cancer .
Cyclin D1 / bcl - 1 cooperates with myc genes in the generation of B - cell lymphoma in transgenic mice .
Drug delivery to solid tumors is one of the most challenging aspects in cancer therapy .
Most of the studies focusing on the mechanisms of p53 activity have been performed in cultured cells upon treatment with well - established p53 - activating inputs , such as high doses of radiations , DNA - damaging drugs and activated oncogenes .
The transfer of apoptosis genes to tumors constitutes one of the most promising strategies for cancer gene therapy .
Unlike wounds , however , that turn off VPF production after healing , tumors did not turn off their VPF production and instead continued to make large amounts of VPF , allowing malignant cells to continue to induce new blood vessels and so to grow and spread .
After confirming the results in agar - processed cell lines , annexin II and beta ( 2 ) - tubulin expression were found to be lower in tumor cells than in adjacent normal epithelial cells in 100 % and 90 % of the patients ' specimens , respectively .
METHOD : Wild - type and phosphatase - inactive ( C124A ) PTEN plasmids were transfected into ovarian epithelial cancer A2780 cells , and their effects on cell apoptosis , cell proliferation , cell migration and cell invasion were analyzed by flow cytometry analysis , TUNEL assay , MTT assay , wound - healing assay and transwell assay .
This contrasts with recent evidence suggesting that the Wave complex may function as an invasion suppressor in epithelial cancers .
Additionally , doxycycline diminishes the proliferation of this breast cancer cell line and also decreases its gelatinolytic activity , as determined by gel zymography .
However , in N - ras - transformed cell clones , RA - induced expression of these homeobox genes is delayed .
We demonstrate that a proteoglycan decorin ( DCN ) up - regulates the vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression with activation of VEGF regulating transcription factors Sp1 , hypoxia - inducible factor 1alpha ( HIF1alpha ) , and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 ( Stat3 ) via epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) , mitogen - activated protein kinase extracellular signal - regulated kinase 1 / 2 ( ERK1 / 2 ) , and protein kinase B ( AKT ) pathways in DCN transfected mouse cerebral endothelial ( MCE ) cells .
Injection of VEGF - neutralizing antibodies over a 2 - week period completely blocked alinidine - stimulated angiogenesis .
Surprisingly , when injected into chicken embryos in the presence of helper virus , both viruses induced an erythroleukemia in about half of the animals .
Members of the src and ras oncogene families supplant the epidermal growth factor requirement of BALB / MK - 2 keratinocytes and induce distinct alterations in their terminal differentiation program .
The cortex within 100 microns of the capsule had little vascularization .
Our results suggest that the selective inhibition of NF - kappaB activation by NBD peptide may provide an effective approach for the treatment of highly metastatic OSCC .
Malignancy in cancer is associated with aerobic glycolysis ( Warburg effect ) evidenced by increased trapping of [ ( 18 ) F ] deoxyglucose ( FdG ) in patients imaged by positron emission tomography ( PET ) .
This technique also revealed the inhibitory effect of the NOS inhibitor N ( G ) - iminoethyl - L - ornithine in VEGF - mediated in vivo angiogenesis .
Tumor size was measured every 3 days .
An anti - vascular endothelial growth factor strategy may reduce tissue damage associated with radiation vasculopathy and neuropathy .
The nm23 gene is a conspicuous metastasis - suppressor gene .
Although pancreatic cancer is the fifth common cause of cancer death in Western countries , current options in treatment enable a 5 - yr survival rate for all stages of less than 5 % .
The coagulative parameters including the prothrombin time , activated partial thromboplastin time , and fibrinogen levels were collected and studied retrospectively .
Cancer is a disease largely dependent on neoangiogenesis .
Chondrocyte - DegraPol in Oxygent group presented lower glycosaminoglycan value ( 0 . 03 + / - 0 . 00 vs . 0 . 13 + / - 0 . 00 , p less than 0 . 05 ) ; histology slides showed poor acid mucopolysaccharides formation .
Efficient inhibition of ovarian cancer growth and prolonged survival by transfection with a novel pro - apoptotic gene , hPNAS - 4 , in a mouse model .
Importantly , PTHrP - specific neutralizing antibodies slowed the progression and metastasis of human breast cancer xenografts .
Preventing VEGFR1 function using antibodies or by the removal of VEGFR1 ( + ) cells from the bone marrow of wild - type mice abrogates the formation of these pre - metastatic clusters and prevents tumour metastasis , whereas reconstitution with selected Id3 ( inhibitor of differentiation 3 ) - competent VEGFR1 + cells establishes cluster formation and tumour metastasis in Id3 knockout mice .
Thus , our results indicate that under appropriate conditions rho genes function as oncogenes and may have a role in the regulation of proliferation in fibroblast cells .
CONCLUSION : Our results strongly support a role for PI3K / Akt / mTOR pathway in PET , which ties in with the fact that mTOR inhibitors have reached phase III trials in neuroendocrine tumors .
Results from the present investigation reveal that cultured primary skin fibroblasts cease to proliferate once they reach confluence ; these cells are thus contact inhibited in vitro .
PURPOSE : The poor prognosis associated with lung cancer is related to the high incidence of regional and distant metastasis .
Treated animals also displayed a 2 . 4 - fold reduction of tumor vascular endothelial growth factor mRNA levels .
Patients with high PLD ( > 8 . 0 ) showed higher rates of neck metastases than low PLD ( < = 8 . 0 ) ( 74 . 0 % vs 46 . 8 % , p = . 03 ) .
These results suggest that apoptosis caused by elevated expression of Fas is involved in chemoprevention by lactoferrin of colon carcinogenesis .
Medical therapy for intermittent claudication .
20 - Hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid ( 20 - HETE ) is formed by the omega - hydroxylation of arachidonic acid by cytochrome P450 4A and 4F enzymes , and it induces angiogenic responses in vivo .
Semaphorins comprise a family of molecules that influence neuronal growth and guidance .
Radiation significantly affected DMBA - associated vascular volume and permeability changes during carcinogenesis .
Analysis of Runx2 - expressing lymphomas reveals a consistently low rate of apoptosis , in contrast to lymphomas of MYC mice which are often highly apoptotic .
Also , the grafts maintain a constant volume between 3 and 8 weeks , thereby indicating that primary skin fibroblasts do not produce tumors .
This induction was due to activation of autophagic flux , as there was further increase in LC3 - II expression upon treatment with lysosomal inhibitors , clear decline of the autophagy substrate p62 , and an mRFP - GFP - LC3 fluorescence change in sorafenib - treated hepatoma cells .
This study was aimed to investigate whether there is selective expression of these cytolytic markers in the putative NK - cell lymphomas and whether there is correlation with zonal tumor cell death in these tumors .
Treatment with suberoylanilide hydroxamide ( SAHA ) , a histone deacetylase ( HDAC ) inhibitor , causes dose - dependent hTERT reporter activation , mimicking HMGA2 overexpression .
METHODS : The expression of DCC and netrin - 1 in normal endometrial glands and in cancer cell lines was examined by RT - PCR and immunohistochemistry .
However , how the tumor suppressive functions of p53 become concerted with the extracellular cues arriving at the cell surface during tissue homeostasis , remains largely unknown .
Additional activities of p53 in non - stressed cells tune up the antioxidant defense mechanisms reducing the probability of mutations caused by DNA oxidation under conditions of daily stresses .
Each was legally blind before treatment ( n = 1 ) , experienced little to no subjective improvement ( n = 2 ) , or was poorly compliant ( n = 2 ) .
Dietary CLA decreased serum levels of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and whole mammary gland levels of VEGF and its receptor Flk - 1 .
Three patients ( 14 % ) regained 2 or more lines of visual acuity .
In our study , MOG was shown to specifically inhibit the growth of human leukemia cell lines and primary acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) blasts via induction of apoptosis , with the evidence of mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss , reactive oxygen species production , caspases activation and nuclear fragmentation .
These studies have led to a hypothesis that the supplemental intake of these vitamins may reduce the risk of cancer .
Paradoxically , OSM can also suppress the growth of normal cells and certain tumor - derived cell lines .
However , the biochemical mechanisms by which MTSS1 functions in cells and the physiological role of this protein in animals remain largely unknown .
Apoptosis , or programmed cell death , is thought to play a role in the dichotomous behavior of neuroblastoma .
After IL - 1Ra treatment of GK rats in vivo , most selected genes implied in endothelium / OS / immune cells / fibrosis were significantly down - regulated .
E1A proteins stimulate DNA synthesis and cell proliferation ; however , they also cause rapid cell death by p53 - dependent and p53 - independent apoptosis .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : We used rAAV2 / 5 to deliver vasostatin intratumorally or systemically in different mouse lung tumor models - - subcutaneous , orthotopic xenograft , and spontaneous metastasis lung tumor models .
Metastatic NIH 3T3 x LTA cell hybrids express 72 kDa type IV collagenase .
The various complex interactions of TP give it an essential role in cellular functioning and , hence , it is an ideal target in cancer therapy .
The age and oral habits of patients , as well as the tumor site and size , did not appear to be correlated with h - MVD or VEGF immunoreactivity .
In both cases , regulation of syndecan - 1 occurred post - transcriptionally , since syndecan - 1 mRNA levels remained unchanged .
The following review describes key molecular mechanisms and novel therapies that are on the horizon for antiangiogenic tumor therapy .
Treatment involved intravitreal injection of bevacizumab ( 1 . 25 mg in 0 . 05 mL ) every 6 - 12 weeks .
The procedure is based on the use of a central skeleton of uteroglobin , a small and very soluble covalently linked homodimeric protein that is very resistant to proteolytic enzymes and to pH variations .
An angiostatin - mimetic activity has recently been observed using a polyclonal antibody against the beta catalytic subunit of ATP synthase .
A previous study showed that the expression of COUP - TFII enhanced invasiveness of human lung carcinoma cells .
CONCLUSIONS : Indocyanine green dye - enhanced photocoagulation of CNV feeder vessels , facilitated by use of a device that permits real - time visualization of the choroidal circulation while aiming the treatment laser beam , appears to minimize the amount of energy applied to the fundus and the volume of fundus tissue affected by treatment , compared with other treatment modalities .
These data highlight sanguinarine as a novel potential agent for bone cancer therapy .
A small peptide derived from Flt - 1 ( VEGFR - 1 ) functions as an angiogenic inhibitor .
High - affinity binding is reduced in EGFR . TDM / 18 - 26 , although the t1 / 2 of receptor internalization is not prolonged .
These studies support a role of both systems in adipogenesis and obesity ; the role of specific members of these families , however , remains to be determined .
Here , we review the molecular basis of AID regulation , targeting , and initiation of CSR and SHM , as well as AID ' s role in generating chromosome translocations that contribute to lymphomagenesis .
SAHA enhanced acetylation of histone H3 in Bim promoter region , while E1A upregulated Egr - 1 , which was directly involved in Bim transactivation .
The finding of retinal vasculopathy ( 32 patients in group 1 and two patients in group 2 ) was directly correlated with the presence of choroidal neovascularizations ( P = 0 . 002 ) .
We determined whether growth state can influence the action of protein kinase C by measuring protein kinase C activity in growing and stationary cultures of normal and transformed cells .
Effect of U - 995 , a potent shark cartilage - derived angiogenesis inhibitor , on anti - angiogenesis and anti - tumor activities .
Here , we show that gene transfer - induced p75 ( NTR ) expression impairs the survival , proliferation , migration , and adhesion capacities of cultured ECs and endothelial progenitor cells ( EPCs ) and inhibits angiogenesis in vitro .
In EC9706 cells , the mechanism of aspirin and nimesulide induced growth inhibition was a consequence of cell cycle arrest at the G ( 0 ) / G ( 1 ) check point .
These results suggest that MnSO4 co - operates with overexpressed c - myc in inducing transformation , while 5 - azacytidine transformation is independent of c - myc overexpression and may involve alterations in the regulation of apoptosis .
Highly sensitive reverse - transcription polymerase chain reaction identifies an induction and overexpression of a type II - like tumor HK RNA in a range of cancer cell lines irrespective of tissue origin .
Curcumin also significantly decreased ( P < 0 . 05 ) the expression of uPA and NF - kappaB DNA binding activity , respectively .
Because failure of endothelial cell apoptosis might lead to intimal proliferation and lack of reversibility of PHT , we investigated this and other key markers of vasoactivity and angiogenesis in subjects with PHT and CHD .
Emodin also induced differentiation of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells by exhibiting a morphological maturation property of large lacy nuclei surrounded by sizable flat cytoplasm and by showing a measurable production of large lipid droplets , which is a marker of mature breast cells .
Four drugs with potential anti - peritumoral brain edema activity were studied using the VX2 rabbit brain tumor model .
Fibroblast growth factor 2 promotes microvessel formation from mouse embryonic aorta .
Immunofluorescence was used to observe the differentiation of the grafted cells into cardiomyocytes .
A two sided correlation between the expression of TKTL1 and LDH5 could be shown ( p = 0 . 002 ) within the overall cohort as well as for each grading and pN group .
PURPOSE : This study was designed to reconcile our previous findings with the recent report of nm23 - H1 allelic deletion in human colon cancers associated with poor prognosis .
A nutritionally induced obesity model in transgenic mice has been used extensively to study the role of the fibrinolytic and MMP systems in the development of obesity .
A series of epithelial cell lines and a single fibroblast cell line established in this way were analysed for the presence of transforming genes by DNA transfection into NIH3T3 cells .
Nontumorigenic , immortalized keratinocytes cell line ( 3PC ) , papilloma ( MT1 / 2 ) , and squamous cell carcinoma ( Ca3 / 7 ) cell lines were initially used to study the cell growth inhibition by DMI .
Patients were followed up until bone metastases were established .
The results suggest that chronic exposure to high concentration of TGF - beta promotes the spontaneous neoplastic transformation of cultured rat liver epithelial cells , and that this process may represent one of the mechanisms of cellular adaptation for induction of the multidrug - resistant phenotype during the carcinogenesis of epithelial cells .
Despite several advances in therapeutic options , the disease remains incurable .
Therapy was equally effective in this immunosuppressive setting .
Chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter - transcription factor II ( COUP - TFII ) plays an essential role in angiogenesis and development .
Since AP - 1 and NF - kappa B are key elements in controlling interleukin - 8 ( IL - 8 ) transcription , human fibroblasts were treated with alpha - MSH and IL - 1 beta for 24 hours , and cytokine levels in the supernatants were measured by ELISA .
Since tumor cell - derived TSP - 1 has the potential to promote angiogenesis in the tumor microenvironment , it could be a potential target for breast cancer therapy .
No significant association was also observed between nm23 - H1 gene product expression in lymph nodes and the patients survival .
METHODS : We assessed antiapoptotic and proapoptotic markers in vascular and perivascular cells in lung biopsy samples from 18 patients with CHD , 7 with reversible and 11 with irreversible PHT , and 6 control patients .
In breast cancer , there are conflicting studies questioning the role of angiogenin .
Consequently , we examined by immunohistochemistry , using the avidin - biotin - peroxidase method , Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 expression in 56 samples of primary oral squamous cell carcinoma and in 22 matched pairs of primary and metastatic tumors .
To assess the lymphoid tumorigenic potential of bcl - 2 , mice of five independent strains expressing a bcl - 2 transgene in B and / or T cells were monitored for disease up to 12 months of age .
In comparison with nonmetastasis Hep3B cell lines , there were 16 proteins overexpressed in MHCC97H and MHCC97L , 10 proteins underexpressed in MHCC97H and MHCC97L .
Molecular analysis of genetic instability caused by chronic inflammation .
RESULTS : Cell clones expressing elevated levels of p75 showed a high degree of apoptosis even in 10 % serum - supplemented medium .
c - erb B2 overexpression decreases the benefit of adjuvant tamoxifen in early - stage breast cancer without axillary lymph node metastases .
UV - B - induced IL - 8 was constitutively expressed 60 days after irradiation in tumors implanted in mice .
Correlation with clinico - pathological factors including LVI as retrieved by routine haematoxylin and eosin ( H . E . ) stained sections and the eligibility for the prediction of ALNM was assessed .
OBJECTIVES : Recently , it has been reported that expression of the HRK gene was significantly reduced by hypermethylation in astrocytic tumors .
Transcutaneous measurements of tissue pO2 showed elevation from 20 + / - 10 mm Hg during air breathing to 643 + / - 242 mm Hg while breathing pure oxygen at 2 . 5 ATA .
Differential mechanisms of radiosensitization by 2 - deoxy - D - glucose in the monolayers and multicellular spheroids of a human glioma cell line .
The interaction between the vascular endothelium and hemodynamic forces ( and more specifically , fluid shear stress ) , induced by the flow of blood , plays a major role in vascular remodeling and in new blood vessels formation via a process termed arteriogenesis .
Melanoma cells and human fibroblasts adhered to immobilized DC - 9 in a Mn ( 2 + ) - dependent fashion suggesting an integrin - mediated process .
Taken together , these results showed that , in addition to the MAPK pathway previously reported being a downstream target of stimulated Grm1 , AKT2 is another downstream target in Grm1 mediated melanocyte transformation .
These functions include the first stages of sprouting in angiogenesis , cell migration following wounding , and vascular permeability .
Possible mechanisms involved in sensitizing cells to a p53 - dependent apoptosis pathway in spite of the ability of T antigen to bind and inactivate the transcriptional transactivating activity of p53 are discussed .
Here we found that inactivation of the Notch effectors Hes1 , Hes3 and Hes5 , but not Hes1 alone , led to reduced cell proliferation , increased secretory cell formation and altered intestinal structures in adult mice .
VEGF immunoreactivity was positive in 75 . 5 % of samples .
Hereditary paraganglioma / pheochromocytoma and inherited succinate dehydrogenase deficiency .
METHODS : We analyzed the hypermethylation status and expression of the gene and 12q13 . 1 loss of heterozygosity in 31 PCNSLs .
From one of the revertants , we recovered a 0 . 2 - kb cDNA , N56 , that suppresses the tumor growth of the transformed 3Y1 cells irrespective of the expression of the E6 and E7 genes .
Dopamine regulates phosphorylation of VEGF receptor 2 by engaging Src - homology - 2 - domain - containing protein tyrosine phosphatase 2 .
Histologic evaluation revealed that although tumors overexpressing TIMP - 3 had an increased number of CD31 ( + ) endothelial cells , these endothelial cells had not formed functional tubules , as evidenced by decreased vessel continuity and minimal pericyte recruitment .
Pathological analyses indicate that a significant large population of human ductal cancers may utilize the EGFR - GEP100 - Arf6 - AMAP1 pathway for their malignancy .
Oncostatin M ( OSM ) , an IL - 6 family cytokine responsible for STAT3 activation , has been implicated in cancer development , progression , invasion , and metastasis .
KISS1 methylation and expression as tumor stratification biomarkers and clinical outcome prognosticators for bladder cancer patients .
Jun N terminal kinase ( JNK1 ) and p38 kinase are activated by a variety of stress stimuli .
Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) is strongly associated with the development of HCC in people chronically infected with the virus , but the mechanism of viral involvement remains unclear .
Serum vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) levels were measured using the enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) kit .
VM - targeting strategies for ovarian cancer include anti - VEGF - a treatment , knocking down the EphA2 gene and using antibodies against human MMPs if the tumor is VM positive .
Aflibercept ( AVE0005 ) : an alternative strategy for inhibiting tumour angiogenesis by vascular endothelial growth factors .
Its Hsp90 inhibition results in multiple anti - tumor - specific effects , such as degradation of Hsp90 - client proteins involved in cell growth , survival , and specific transformation , inhibition of cancer cell growth , delay of cell cycle progression , induction of morphological and functional changes , and apoptosis .
The mean BCVA increased from 20 / 76 to 20 / 64 .
Neovascularization , an essential event for the growth of solid tumors , is regulated by a number of angiogenic factors .
Additionally , the angiogenic and lymphangiogenic profiles of the tumors were characterized .
Rat - 1 cells which had been transformed with the activated Ha - ras - 1 gene from human EJ bladder carcinoma cells were fused with diploid embryonic rat fibroblasts .
In addition , we found down - regulation of cyclin B , cyclin E , and dephosphorylation of cdk2 in ciprofloxacin - treated bladder tumor cells .
They also antagonised the effects of both thrombin and SFLLR on MMP - 2 activation .
Reduced oxygen tension has been shown to increase VEGF production by induction of the transcription factor hypoxia inducible factor 1 alpha ( HIF - 1alpha ) .
c - kit gene mutation may play a significant role in the pathogenesis of GIST and also may be a prognostic marker .
Furthermore , in support of these findings , we found that sunitinib induced a reduction in the expression of the antiapoptotic molecule Bcl - 2 as well as dephosphorylation of the proapoptotic molecule BAD , which results in the activation of BAD in these cells .
The cell death pathway initiated by survivin targeting was mapped with respect to cytochrome c release , changes in mitochondrial transmembrane potential , and apoptosome requirements using mouse embryonic fibroblasts deficient in Apaf - 1 or caspase - 9 .
Among the most potent of the angiogenic factors is vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
Moreover , the tumor vascular bed can be manipulated facilitating enhanced permissiveness of the tumor for administered chemotherapeutics .
To investigate this possibility , we studied the influence of bovine lactoferrin on Fas - mediated apoptosis with regard to expression of Fas , activation of caspase - 8 and caspase - 3 , and DNA fragmentation in the colon mucosa of AOM - treated rats .
Gangliocytic paraganglioma ( GPG ) with local lymph node metastasis was found in the pancreas of a 74 - yr - old female who presented with diarrhea , steatorrhea , vomiting , nausea , and abdominal pain .
Differential diagnosis for synchronous primary ovarian and endometrial cancers and metastatic cancer .
The temporal expression ( percentage positivity per 1000 analysed cells ) VEGF proteins over the course of CML were studied using the immunohistochemical technique utilizing relevant monoclonal antibodies .
As expected , Ang II - induced sFlt - 1 secretion resulted in the inhibition of endothelial cell migration and in vitro tube formation .
RESULTS : The final visual acuity of the study patients , after a median follow - up of 31 months , improved by greater than or = 1 Snellen lines in 8 patients ( 13 % ) , deteriorated in 20 ( 32 % ) , and remained stable in 34 ( 55 % ) .
The genetics of transformation by SV 40 .
Previous studies showed that gammaIFN decreases metastatic hepatic tumor growth by stimulating Kupffer cells ( KC ) .
Finally , anti - p53 monoclonal antibodies only slightly affected in vitro phosphorylation reactions , whereas a p53 molecule from a simian virus 40 - free , chemically transformed human cell line was not phosphorylated in vitro under any condition tested .
These proliferative effects were accompanied by increased VEGF expression and release that were observed as early as 4 h after 20 - HETE agonist addition .
The microvessel density ( MVD ) ) decreased from 42 . 4 + / - 4 . 8 to 10 . 5 + / - 3 . 2 per x 200 magnificetion microscopic field by CD10 staining and from 68 . 5 + / - 4 . 5 to 37 . 5 + / - 4 . 6 by CD31 staining , respectively ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
BACKGROUND : Breast cancers have higher than normal glucose metabolism , but the mechanism of glucose entry into these tumors is not well understood .
The loss of one allele of the p53 gene ( located on chromosome 17p13 ) occurred in at least 6 ( 60 % ) of the 10 patients who were heterozygous at the p53 locus .
GM - CSF or IL - 2 vaccines or gammaIFN decreased tumor nodules significantly ( GM - CSF 13 + / - 4 , IL - 2 14 + / - 6 vs . control 75 + / - 24 , P < 0 . 001 ) .
A third mutation involved a single base pair ( adenine ) deletion in codon 3 of H - ras which causes a frame shift , resulting in a termination signal at codon 19 .
Pthrp ablation in the mammary epithelium of the PyMT - MMTV breast cancer mouse model caused a delay in primary tumor initiation , inhibited tumor progression , and reduced metastasis to distal sites .
Following cotransfection of p53 - null EU - 4 cells with survivin promoter - luciferase constructs and either wt - p53 or different mut - p53 expression vectors , wt - p53 inhibited survivin promoter activity ; p53 - mediated inhibition could be abrogated by overexpression of murine double minute2 ( MDM2 ) protein .
Long - term carcinogen exposure exerts continuous pressure on key mechanisms that repair or eliminate carcinogen - damaged cells giving rise to selective failures that contribute to lung cancer .
Keratinocyte progenitor cells from TPA - treated Tg . AC mice were isolated with fluorescence - activated cell sorting and expression was analyzed using cDNA microarray technology .
HBO is useful in chronic nonhealing wounds of the diabetic foot and of the diabetic foot with impending amputation .
Since glucose phosphorylation is the first step in glycolysis , hexokinase ( HK ) , the first rate limiting glycolytic enzyme , can play a key regulatory role in this process .
In contrast , continuous ( 24h ) treatment with doxorubicin reduced the number of living cells with no parallel raise in the amount of dead cells .
By transcriptional activation and other means , p53 is able to contribute to the regulation of glycolysis , oxidative phosphorylation , glutaminolysis , insulin sensitivity , nucleotide biosynthesis , mitochondrial integrity , fatty acid oxidation , antioxidant response , autophagy and mTOR signalling .
Further analysis reveals that although LMP1 ( TRADD ) promotes cell growth , it does not prevent the eventual onset of senescence and the expression of tumor suppressor p16 ( Ink4a ) .
Group 2 animals had the same procedure of DMBA applications but also received alpha tocopherol .
However , very little is known about the function of RASSF1C both in normal and transformed cells .
Based on this observation , we generated the first transgenic mouse model with a targeted overexpression of Tsg101 in the developing mammary gland to test whether exogenous Tsg101 is capable of initiating tumorigenesis .
Recent evidence has suggested a role for inflammation in seizure disorders .
We found a decrease in corneal neovascularization in spironolactone - treated rats compared with the PBS - treated group , although the difference was not statistically significant .
In addition to p16 ( INK4A ) , the INK4A locus encodes a splice variant , termed p12 - - specifically expressed in human pancreas - - and ARF , a protein encoded by an alternative reading frame that acts as a tumor suppressor through the p53 pathway .
The clinical significance of MTSS1 will also be discussed .
Previous studies have shown that v - erbA and v - myb can induce the proliferation of avian erythroid cells in culture .
Depletion of polyphenol with polyvinylpyrrolidone abolished the antiangiogenic activity of GSE , suggesting a water - soluble fraction of polyphenol in GSE is responsible for the antiangiogenic activity .
HSP27 is implicated in protein - protein interactions such as folding , translocation , and prevention of inappropriate protein aggregation .
Yet , the net outcome of Ang - 2 functions on tumor angiogenesis is believed to be contextual depending on the local cytokine milieu .
In addition , p21 - or p16 - mediated growth arrest did not protect glioma cells from E2F - 1 - mediated apoptosis .
In addition to having a direct effect on tumor cells , vitamins such as alpha - tocopheryl succinate and beta - carotene enhance the effect of other agents that induce differentiation in tumor cells .
We demonstrate here that a transcript is initiated within the U3 region and that its presence correlates with the trans - activating activity .
Retrospective case series of juxtafoveal choroidal neovascularization treated with photodynamic therapy with verteporfin .
PURPOSE : To assess the safety and effectiveness of photodynamic therapy ( PDT ) with verteporfin for subfoveal choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) secondary to pathologic myopia ( PM ) .
Expression , regulation , and function of IGF - 1 , IGF - 1R , and IGF - 1 binding proteins in blood vessels .
Also , serum VEGF was significantly higher in patients with PDR than in those without DR .
OBJECTIVES : This study sought to assess the cellular and histologic basis of irreversible pulmonary hypertension ( PHT ) in the clinical setting of congenital heart disease ( CHD ) .
Our aim was to investigate the role of tumor lymphangiogenesis during metastasis .
Our results suggest that blood flow limits glucose supply to tumor tissue at much higher flow rates than in normal brain which , in turn , is associated with a decrease in tumor glucose utilization .
To determine how p18 and p27 genetically interact with Men1 , the tumor suppressor gene mutated in familial MEN1 , we characterized p18 - Men1 and p27 - Men1 double mutant mice .
Comparison between RNA / DNA sequence of viral oncogenes and normal human genome of non - transformed cells revealed high sequence similarities in specific genomic areas , which were named cellular proto - oncogens .
The effect of perfluorocarbon - based artificial oxygen carriers on tissue - engineered trachea .
In this report , we analyzed the expression of Plexin C1 using immunohistochemistry on sections of primary and matched metastatic lesions from 19 subjects and in a large melanoma tumor microarray .
Perlecan was found to be anti - adhesive for platelets , however after removal of the HS chains attached to perlecan , platelet adhesion and aggregation were supported .
Clinically , patients with advanced cancer are usually in a hypercoagulable state with elevated fibrinogen , and fibrin deposition around tumor mass is a serious problem in cancer chemotherapy .
In cultured cells , this molecule is physically associated with focal adhesions , which are well - defined regions of intimate cell - to - substratum adhesion .
We have shown that Arf6 and its effector AMAP1 ( DDEF1 , DEF1 , ASAP1 and centaurin beta4 ) are abnormally overexpressed in some breast cancers and used for their invasion and metastasis .
Capillary cell migration and proliferation are proposed as sensitive quantifiable bioassays to explore the functional domains of the EGF molecule .
However , effective HDAC inhibitors for the treatment of solid tumors remain to be developed .
When the two groups were compared with respect to poor and good CCC , poor CCC was higher in patients with PDR ( 64 vs . 36 % , respectively , p = 0 . 01 ) .
It is concluded that primary skin fibroblasts are able to survive for at least 8 weeks following intracerebral implantation and continue to synthesize collagen and fibronectin in vivo .
We previously showed in colorectal cancer that sVAP - 1 expression is significantly higher relative to controls , and this decreased expression is associated with poor prognosis and lymph node and liver metastasis .
The present studies examine whether lymphocyte stimulation via cells engineered to secrete GM - CSF or IL - 2 decreases hepatic tumor growth , and whether stimulation of both macrophages and lymphocytes is more effective than either individually .
In 1983 , Harold Dvorak and his colleagues were the first to show that tumor cells secreted vascular permeability factor ( VPF ) and that a blocking antibody to VPF could prevent the edema and fluid accumulation that is characteristic of human cancers .
In intestinal metaplasia , dysplasia , and GC of the intestinal and atypical subtypes , C / EBPbeta was over - expressed ( p < 0 . 0001 , for the association with histological type ) .
Here we demonstrate that repetitive exposure to tobacco smoke promotes tumor development both in carcinogen - treated mice and in transgenic mice undergoing sporadic K - ras activation in lung epithelial cells .
All of these parameters were reduced by the COX - II inhibitors , suggesting that changes in the vasculature are responsible for the decrease in serum progesterone .
In animal studies , 1B3 significantly enhanced the antitumor and the anti - angiogenic activities of DC101 , an antibody directed against mouse vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 , in a pancreatic ( BxPC - 3 ) and a non - small cell lung ( NCI - H460 ) tumor xenograft models .
Clinical significance of plasma endostatin in acute myeloid leukemia / myelodysplastic syndrome .
Based on these data , our aim was to examine the synergistic / additive cytotoxic and apoptotic effects of combination of docetaxel and ATRA , in hormone - and drug refractory human DU - 145 prostate cancer cells .
Coagulation function in patients with pancreatic carcinoma .
RESULTS : PLGA microspheres with an open - porous structure were formed .
Recently , genetic abnormalities in the elements of the Thyrotropin receptor ( TSH - R ) dependent cAMP regulatory cascade have been found to be involved both in benign and malignant thyroid tumours .
Furthermore , this may explain why cancer in younger patients is more often ' aggressive ' .
A 24 - h exposure of cells to all - trans - RA was sufficient to cause a 30 % decrease in the collagenolytic activity , and this inhibitory effect was reversible .
In some cancers , syndecan expression has been shown to regulate tumor cell function ( e . g . proliferation , adhesion , and motility ) and serve as a prognostic marker for tumor progression and patient survival .
These observations provide evidence that enhanced proliferation in N - ras - transformed cells compromises teratocarcinoma cell differentiation by a mechanism that transiently suppresses homeobox gene induction and implies a central role for homeobox genes in RA - induced cell differentiation .
Angiopoietin - 1 prevents VEGF - induced endothelial permeability by sequestering Src through mDia .
Hematogenous metastasis in gastric cancer requires isolated tumor cells and expression of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 1 .
CONCLUSIONS : Intravitreal bevacizumab can be used to treat radiation retinopathy .
Interestingly , under normal conditions muscle cells express only a approximately 5 . 5 - kb type II HK RNA transcript .
Bradycardia - induced coronary angiogenesis is dependent on vascular endothelial growth factor .
However , treatment of cells with SB202190 or SP600125 , inhibitors of p38 MAPK and JNK respectively , did not affect HUVEC migration .
Early administration of prednisolone ( day 3 , low and high dose ) resulted in the recultivation of significantly more C . albicans .
We screened 200 RTK target - based compounds and identified one ( TKI - 31 ) that potently inhibited VEGFR - 2 kinase activity ( IC50 = 0 . 596 microM ) .
CONCLUSION : These results suggested that cisplatin induced a reduction of endothelial cell migration through an inhibition of MMP2 activity by downstream signal transduction pathways independent of JNK and p38 MAPK activation .
Six patients ( 46 % ) had a clinical response .
Downregulation of E - cadherin occurred at the level of transcription or of mRNA stability .
Few studies have investigated the association between p53 and VEGF expressions and prognosis in esophageal carcinoma .
BACKGROUND : Diabetic patients have been reported to have impaired coronary collateral vessel growth , although they have excessive neovascularization in the retina .
Adenovirus - mediated p53 gene transfer is ineffective in causing apoptosis in glioma cells that retain wild - type p53 genotype or overexpress the p21 protein .
In addition , selected novel classes of antivascular therapies , including those targeting tumor endothelial cells and other components of the tumor vasculature , are summarized .
Bone destruction is primarily mediated by osteoclastic bone resorption , and cancer cells stimulate the formation and activation of osteoclasts next to metastatic foci .
We have investigated the expression of the CD40 - CD154 system in 24 primary cultures derived from renal cell carcinomas , its correlation with tumor stage and its potential functional significance .
Available data indicate that the timing of telomerase activation may allow the distinction of two different lymphomagenetic models : ( i ) an early activation of telomerase via exogenous regulators of hTERT , along with an increased lymphocyte growth and a subsequent selection of cells with increased transforming potential may characterize several virus - related lymphoid malignancies ; ( ii ) a progressive shortening of telomeres , leading to genetic instability which favors a subsequent activation of telomerase via endogenous regulators may occur in most virus - unrelated lymphoid tumors .
[ Role of the tumor suppressor ARF in oncogenesis ]
MATERIALS AND METHODS : Human neuroblastoma cells and human Chang hepatocytes are grown in a noncontact , coculture system .
Our results show that caffeine significantly inhibits adenosine - induced HIF - 1alpha protein accumulation in cancer cells .
In conclusion , our study revealed that the overexpression of EphA2 protein in colorectal carcinoma tissue correlates closely with cancer progression and hematogenous and lymphogenous metastasis , suggesting that both EphA2 and E - cadherin may play an important role in tumor metastasis in colorectal cancer .
9E3 / CEF4 was slightly mitogenic for CEF , causing a doubling of [ 3H ] thymidine uptake when added to serum - starved CEF . 9E3 / CEF4 was found associated not only with the cell and in the culture medium of Rous sarcoma virus - transformed CEF but also with the extracellular matrix .
For this reason , formalin - fixed , paraffin - embedded specimens from 130 patients with squamous cell lung carcinomas were analyzed by immunohistochemistry .
Although this pathway is activated by autocrine signaling by Hedgehog ligands , it can also initiate paracrine signaling with cells in the microenvironment .
Control RM - 9 cells and RM - 9 cells stably transfected with IL - 12 gene ( RM - 9 - IL12 ) were inoculated subcutaneously in 4 - to 6 - week - old male C57BL / J6 mice .
Prognostic significance of heat shock protein 27 ( HSP27 ) in patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma .
The safety of verteporfin is directly dependent upon the appropriate integration of dosage , infusion and light activation required for a suitable pharmacotherapeutic outcome .
Platelet - derived growth factor ( PDGF ) and its receptors ( PDGFR ) play important roles in tumorigenesis through stimulating tumor growth and promoting angiogenesis via enhancing pericyte recruitment and vessel maturation .
The introduction of mutations into the T - antigen J domain resulted in mutation - specific and variable inhibition of apoptosis .
Inoculation of these cells in athymic mice decreases mouse spleen natural killer ( NK ) cell activity .
An increase in oligomycin - independent respiration was observed in HepG2 cells treated with 3 - BrPA only when incubated in glucose - supplemented medium , indicating that 3 - BrPA induces mitochondrial proton leakage as well as blocking the electron transport system .
Further investigation using inhibition or genetic deletion of Erbb2 in vitro revealed reduced Cdc25a levels and increased S - phase arrest in UV - irradiated cells lacking Erbb2 activity .
In patients with pancreatic carcinoma , the levels of fibrinogen in the group with jaundice were significantly higher than in patients without jaundice ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
In concordance with its higher affinity for tumor Hsp90 , in vivo PU24FCl accumulates in tumors while being rapidly cleared from normal tissue .
CONCLUSION : Quantitative assessment is more sensitive as a measure of cellular protein content as compared with standard optical density measurements .
Disabling mutations and deletions of p53 occur in 50 % of human tumours .
Recently , significant improvements in survival have been achieved through the use of combination chemotherapy and monoclonal antibody regimens .
RESULTS : All patients completed therapy and tolerability was good .
We found that the severity of vascular abnormalities correlated positively with the severity of histologic epithelial lesions ; this finding is consistent with colposcopic results .
Historically , PDT has been limited by a lack of suitable photosensitive dyes .
Angiogenesis inhibitors have been developed to interrupt the angiogenic process at the growth factor , receptor tyrosine kinase and intracellular kinase levels .
As determined by ELISA and immunoblot assays , ras p21 in the serum increased with increased tumor growth .
The Erbb2 receptor is activated by UV irradiation , the primary cause of non - melanoma skin cancer .
With K562 cells Glut - 1 appeared as a broad band of 50 - 60 kDa , whereas with U937 and HL60 cells a diffuse band was observed at approximately 55 kDa .
Ectopic expression of TLX in the U87MG glioma cell line and Ink4a / Arf - deficient mouse astrocytes ( Ink4a / Arf ( - / - ) astrocytes ) induced cell proliferation with a concomitant increase in cyclin D expression , and accelerated foci formation in soft agar and tumor formation in in vivo transplantation assays .
These results suggest that CSC contribute to tumor angiogenesis by promoting both local endothelial cell activity and systemic angiogenic processes involving bone marrow - derived EPC in a vascular endothelial growth factor - dependent and stromal - derived factor 1 - dependent manner .
We observed a significantly increased risk of lymph node metastasis associated with the FAS - 1377 GA or AA polymorphism [ odds ratio ( OR ) = 4 . 16 , 95 % confidence interval ( CI ) = 1 . 10 to 15 . 74 ; P = 0 . 036 ] .
Under physiological conditions , angiogenesis is regulated by local balance between endogenous stimulators and inhibitors of this process .
This pattern of expression is consistent with a mechanistic involvement of 5T4 molecules in the spread of cancer cells .
Intracerebral grafting of cultured autologous skin fibroblasts into the rat striatum : an assessment of graft size and ultrastructure .
Finally , dominant - negative inhibition of Mitf resulted in profound resistance of melanocytes and melanoma cells to HGF - dependent matrix invasion , suggesting a physiologic role for this pathway in melanocytic development and melanoma .
RESULTS : Loss of heterozygosity of CDC4 / FBXW7 occurred in 32 % of EOGCs , and correlated with loss of expression in 26 % .
Semaphorin 7A ( Sema7A ) is a membrane - linked semaphorin that is expressed by human keratinocytes , and we have shown that Sema7A binds to human melanocytes through beta1 - integrins and the Plexin C1 receptor .
Diabetic mice , which typically show impaired postischemic muscular neovascularization and blood perfusion recovery , have these defects corrected by intramuscular gene transfer of a dominant negative mutant form of p75 ( NTR ) .
Measuring ouabain - sensitive 22Na efflux and using ouabain - sensitive lactate production as a measure of ATP hydrolysis by the Na + K + pump , it was shown that Nonidet P - 40 greatly decreased the efficiency of the Na + K + pump .
The selected peptide was tested for the antitumor activity against mildly aggressive xenografted prostate carcinoma and highly aggressive renal cell carcinoma .
Platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule ( PECAM ) - 1 has been previously implicated in endothelial cell migration ; additionally , anti - PECAM - 1 antibodies have been shown to inhibit in vivo angiogenesis .
Inhibition of the endothelial cell autocrine angiotensin system , with either the angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor lisinopril or the angiotensin II receptor antagonist sar1 , ile8 - angiotensin II , leads to increased endothelial cell migration and urokinase - like plasminogen activator ( u - PA ) activity ( Bell , L . , and J . A . Madri . 1990 . Am . J . Pathol . 137 : 7 - 12 ) .
Mutations affecting nuclear transport were far more critical for the ability to interfere with myogenic differentiation than were those affecting the transforming potential ; cytoplasmic SVLT expression was fully compatible with the terminal differentiation of C2 cells , despite enabling them to grow in semisolid medium , thus showing that the myogenesis - inhibiting property can be dissociated from transforming competence .
These results indicate that Hyp is a powerful anti - inflammatory compound with therapeutic potential , and they elucidate mechanistic keys .
Fibroblast growth factor - 2 ( FGF - 2 ) has been reported to play multiple roles in different biological processes during development of the central nervous system ( CNS ) .
The graft size is dependent on the density of the cell suspension , but not dependent on either the number of passages the cells are taken through in culture prior to grafting or on the postoperative survival period .
METHODS : Immunohistochemical staining with D2 - 40 and CD34 was performed on formalin - fixed , paraffin - embedded tissue sections of 254 invasive breast tumors of 247 patients with node negative and node positive early breast cancer .
Unirradiated animals showed equal neovascularization of both implants .
CONCLUSIONS : We have found that patients with RDEB have elevated levels of bFGF , which may contribute to increased fibroblast collagenase and the development of squamous cell carcinoma .
alpha - MSH alone had little effect , whereas coincubation with IL - 1 beta led to marked downregulation of IL - 8 secretion ( at most 288 + / - 152 ng / mL ) when compared to treatment with IL - 1 beta alone ( 919 + / - 157 ng / mL ) .
Integrins and growth factors are capable of activating the ras / MAP kinase pathway in vitro , yet how these signals influence endothelial cells during angiogenesis is unknown .
In order to elucidate a mechanism for cancer - induced osteoclastogenesis , cells from a human breast cancer line , MDA - MB - 231 , were directly co - cultured with ST2 , MC3T3 - E1 , or with primary mouse calvarial cells .
Nitric oxide ( NO ) is an important molecule in regulating tumour blood flow and stimulating tumour angiogenesis .
In this communication , we describe an alternative approach that begins with teleology ; i . e . adaptive landscapes and selection pressures that promote emergence of aerobic glycolysis during the somatic evolution of invasive cancer .
96 , 2811 - 2816 .
N - myc augments death and attenuates protective effects of Bcl - 2 in trophically stressed neuroblastoma cells .
Ischemia , involving restricted blood flow to tissues is the most common consequence of vessel dysfunction resulting in the disruption of oxygen and nutrient delivery and the accumulation of waste metabolites .
The effects of LMP1 on the invasion and migration of CNE1 cells were investigated by transwell methods .
Lipid / cholesterol - lowering agents , diet and antiplatelet adherence ( aspirin ) therapy may help slow the progression of vessel disease in some instances ; but surgical reconstruction may be the only option in advanced stages , and even this is not always an option .
Our group seeks to determine the basic mechanisms underlying ES wound therapy , an area where understanding is currently limited .
Simultaneous involvement of the endometrium and the ovary by carcinoma is a familiar problem in the routine practice of surgical pathology .
Tumor angiogenesis has been related to the initiation as well as progression toward more aggressive behavior of human tumors .
Chronic exposure to tobacco smoke , which contains over 60 tumor - initiating carcinogens , is the major risk factor for development of lung cancer , accounting for a large portion of cancer - related deaths worldwide .
Given that PLCbeta3 is typically known as an effector of heterotrimeric G - proteins , our data demonstrate a unique crosstalk between the G - protein and receptor tyrosine kinase ( RTK ) axes and reveal a novel molecular mechanism of VEGF signaling and , thus , angiogenesis .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : The paraffin sections from 49 subjects with OSCC were subjected to immunohistochemical studies to measure the highest MVD ( h - MVD ) and cytoplasmic immunoreactivity of VEGF .
Here we review the recent evidence of a simple genetic mechanism by which tumor suppressor p53 regulates mitochondrial respiration with secondary changes in glycolysis that are reminiscent of the Warburg effect .
In this review article , many functions of homeobox genes both at the early stem cell level as well as at the later stages of hematopoietic differentiation , and the leukemogenic effect of altered homeobox genes are discussed .
DNA damage , rearrangement , and mutation of the human genome are the basis of carcinogenesis and thought to be avoided at all costs .
The beneficial effect of IL - 1Ra on most islet endothelial / OS / immune cells / fibrosis parameters analyzed highlights a major endothelial - related role for IL - 1 in GK islet alterations .
Moreover , when introduced into nude mice , selected clones generated from either gene were able to induce tumors , although those carrying the mutated version were more efficient .
The E2F - 1 protein is able to induce generalized apoptosis in gliomas independently of the p53 , p16 or Rb status .
Clinical studies have shown elevated serum IL - 6 concentrations in patients with endometrial cancer , non - small cell lung carcinoma , colorectal cancer , renal cell carcinoma , breast and ovarian cancer .
Their correlation with lymph node metastasis and the predictability of lymph node metastases , by combining these factors , were also discussed .
In pre - B acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ) with t ( 1 ; 19 ) translocation , a fusion protein is created between E2A and a homeobox gene PBX .
The quaternary benzo [ c ] phenanthridine alkaloid sanguinarine inhibits the proliferation of cancerous cells from different origins , including lung , breast , pancreatic and colon , but nothing is known of its effects on osteosarcoma , a primary malignant bone tumour .
RESULTS : Serum nitrite levels were significantly lower in L - NIL groups ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
LMP1 of Epstein - Barr virus induces proliferation of primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts and cooperatively transforms the cells with a p16 - insensitive CDK4 oncogene .
Coexpression of the human Met receptor and its ligand , hepatocyte growth factor / scatter factor ( HGF / SF ) , in NIH 3T3 fibroblasts causes the cells to become tumorigenic in nude mice .
Consistent with a role for NF - kappaB in oncogenesis are observations that inhibition of NF - kappaB alone or in combination with cancer therapies leads to tumor cell death or growth inhibition .
Since congenital neutropenia and SDS are inherited forms of bone marrow failure , G - CSF may accelerate the propensity for MDS / AML in the genetically altered stem and progenitor cells , especially in those with G - CSF receptor and ras mutations ( 82 % and 50 % of patients who transform , respectively ) .
Cyclooxygenase - 2 ( COX - 2 ) inhibitors are anti - inflammatory agents , which have potent anti - inflammatory , anti - angiogenic and analgesic properties yet do not affect platelet function in the manner of traditional non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs .
Increases in VEGF could contribute to the blood - brain barrier breakdown and inflammation observed after seizures .
Calretinin .
In the current article we demonstrate that TnI inhibits both bFGF - stimulated and basal levels of endothelial cell proliferation , and we hypothesize that this inhibition is occurring , at least in part , via an interaction of TnI with the cell - surface bFGF receptor on capillary endothelial cells .
TRADD domain of Epstein - Barr virus transforming protein LMP1 is essential for inducing immortalization and suppressing senescence of primary rodent fibroblasts .
Bevacizumab is a humanized immunoglobulin G1 monoclonal antibody to vascular endothelial growth factor that has been shown to have activity in malignant gliomas when combined with irinotecan .
In this study , we address the mechanism by which VEGFR - 2 phosphorylation is regulated by dopamine .
The antiproliferative effect of HAH - cortisol on endothelial cells appeared independent of the glucocorticoid activity of the steroid since HAH conjugated to 5 beta - pregnane - 3 alpha , 17 alpha , 21 - triol - 20 - one , a steroid lacking glucocorticoid or mineralocorticoid activity , was even more effective at inhibiting DNA synthesis by murine pulmonary capillary endothelial cells than was HAH - cortisol .
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES : Chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) is the most common leukemia in the western world .
We have suggested that constitutive activation of this kinase is one mechanism by which oncogenes transform cells .
Furthermore , there is strong evidence suggesting that aberrant activation of Wnt signaling induces mammary tumors from stem / progenitor cells , and that Wnt exerts its oncogenic effects through LRP5 / 6 - mediated activation of beta - catenin and mTOR pathways .
There were significant differences in s - VEGF between the RCC patients and the controls ( 207 . 3 + / - 32 . 9 vs . 71 . 5 + / - 9 . 1 pg / ml , mean + / - SE ) ( P less than 0 . 005 ) , between the tumor - bearing renal veins and the contralateral ones ( P less than 0 . 01 ) , between the pre - and post - nephrectomy situations ( P less than 0 . 01 ) and among the various parameters of tumor status such as tumor extent ( P less than 0 . 001 ) and existence of metastasis ( P less than 0 . 001 ) .
We have investigated the putative role of rho proteins from Aplysia californica as transforming GTPases utilizing the wild - type and a Val - 14 mutant , equivalent to the oncogenic Val - 12 mutation of ras genes found in animal and human tumors .
In contrast , caspase - 3 , Fas ligand , Fas / CD95 , and PAI showed an inverse correlation to lymph node involvement .
Statistical analysis was performed to explore the links between expression of the CCN genes and clinical and pathological parameters .
Honokiol has been reported to possess potent antiangiogenesis and antitumor properties in several cell lines and xenograft tumor models .
METHODS : Thirty - two male wistar rats randomly divided into four groups .
These results show a remarkable selectivity of expression and function for laminin - 332 G45 in human SCC tumorigenesis and implicate it as a specific target for anticancer therapy .
METHODOLOGY / PRINCIPAL FINDINGS : Here , we propose a novel HDAC inhibitor , N - Hydroxy - 4 - ( 4 - phenylbutyryl - amino ) benzamide ( HTPB ) , as a potential chemotherapeutic drug for solid tumors .
METHODS : The authors evaluated plasma endostatin ( PE ) levels using an enzyme linked immunoassay in 71 patients with acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) and 43 patients with myelodysplastic syndrome ( MDS ) , and correlated PE with various clinical parameters .
Bee venom induces apoptosis and inhibits expression of cyclooxygenase - 2 mRNA in human lung cancer cell line NCI - H1299 .
These results indicate that VEGF - C plays a critical role in lymph node metastasis , in addition to serving as a platform to test the efficacy of various therapeutic modalities against lymph node metastasis .
s - VEGF significantly correlated with the tumor volume obtained by a three - dimensional measurement ( r = 0 . 802 , P less than 0 . 0001 ) .
Thrombin greatly potentiates vascular endothelial growth factor - ( VEGF - ) induced endothelial cell proliferation .
Clinical , laboratory , histopathological , and pharmacological evidence support the notion that the coagulation system , which is activated in most cancer patients , plays an important role in tumor biology .
