The aim of this study was to examine immunohistochemical expression of these adhesion molecules , focusing on early gastric carcinomas , and to investigate differences between differentiated and undifferentiated gastric cancer at the early phase of carcinogenesis .
Although one mutant allele was detected in revertant EMS - 1 - 19 , overexpression of this mutant allele failed to inhibit v - fos induced cell transformation .
MTSS1 : a multifunctional protein and its role in cancer invasion and metastasis .
Expression and purification of the catalytic domain of human vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 for inhibitor screening .
H4IIEC3 ( H4 ) , a differentiated rat hepatoma line and H5 , its dedifferentiated subclone , were investigated as proliferating spheroids and as implanted subcutaneous tumors in juvenile rats .
Treatment with all - trans - RA decreased the level of these enzymes in the cellular , cell membrane , and conditioned medium compartments . ( ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS )
Highly metastatic tumors with beta - catenin stabilization are very similar to a subset of human melanomas .
A 74 - year - old man presented with persistent metamorphopsias of the right eye 2 weeks after intravitreal injection of bevacizumab to treat choroidal neovascularization due to exudative age - related macular degeneration .
KISS1 methylation was associated with increasing stage ( P = 0 . 001 ) and tumor grade ( P = 0 . 010 ) .
Mast cell heparin stimulates migration of capillary endothelial cells in vitro .
We investigated the hypothesis that naked DNA encoding for VEGF could be used in a strategy of arterial gene therapy to stimulate collateral artery development .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : We used rAAV2 / 5 to deliver vasostatin intratumorally or systemically in different mouse lung tumor models - - subcutaneous , orthotopic xenograft , and spontaneous metastasis lung tumor models .
Immunohistochemical study with specific antisera was done .
The antivascular permeability mechanisms deployed by Ang1 are still undefined .
This potentiation is accompanied by up - regulation of the expression of VEGF receptors ( kinase insert domain - containing receptor [ KDR ] and fms - like tyrosine kinase [ Flt - 1 ] ) .
In these settings TNF demonstrates potent and selective activity on the tumor vascular bed , which strongly improves tumor response .
TP catalyzes the conversion of thymidine to thymine and doxyribose - 1 - phosphate ( dR - 1 - P ) .
RESULTS : ( 1 ) SREBP was activated during ECs migration .
Because failure of endothelial cell apoptosis might lead to intimal proliferation and lack of reversibility of PHT , we investigated this and other key markers of vasoactivity and angiogenesis in subjects with PHT and CHD .
A number of signaling cascades have been shown to play important roles in prostate cancer development and progression , including the androgen receptor ( AR ) and phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase / Akt signaling pathways .
This effect is mediated , at least in part , by a decrease in TTF - 1 activity , since transient or stable expression of RhoA QL results in a reduction in the activity of the wild - type Tg promoter as well as an artificial promoter the activation of which depends exclusively on TTF - 1 .
Insulin concentrations were significantly higher ( P less than 0 . 001 ) at baseline and at the 5 - , 45 - , 60 - , and 90 - minute time periods of the glucose tolerance test in dogs with lymphoma .
These processes are regulated by numerous pro - angiogenic and anti - angiogenic growth factors .
No tumours were induced within the latent period for tumour production by control cells transfected with NIH3T3 cell DNA ( 40 - 60 days ) .
The expression of MMP - 2 / 9 of AGS cells was inhibited by 2 . 0 microM of GA .
Differential sensitivity to these agents implies that more than one endothelial cell type must be used in proliferation assays to screen for novel anti - angiogenic compounds .
The vascular insulin - like growth factor ( IGF ) - 1 system includes the IGFs , the IGF - 1 receptor ( IGF - 1R ) , and multiple binding proteins .
We show that both substitution of glucose for pyruvate and treatment with 2 - deoxyglucose enhanced apoptosis induced by tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) - alpha , CD95 agonistic antibody , and TNF - related apoptosis - inducing ligand ( TRAIL ) .
Studies on the inactivation of these properties of EGF by specific cleavage of the molecule with CNBr or proteases suggest that an intact loop composed in part by amino acid residues 20 to 31 is essential for at least some functions .
The correlation between the expression of COUP - TFII and clinicopathologic features was investigated .
Angiogenin is up - regulated in the nucleus and cytoplasm in human primary breast carcinoma and is associated with markers of hypoxia but not survival .
TSP interacts with a number of proteases and receptors and in this way inhibits stimulation of angiogenesis .
OBJECTIVE : Dependence on glycolysis is a hallmark of malignant tumors .
Furthermore , we found that p130 ( Cas ) , but not paxillin , recruited Crk to the nascent focal complex .
Suppression of tumor growth by the 3 ' untranslated region of mel - 18 in 3Y1 cells transformed by the E6 and E7 genes of human papillomavirus type 18 .
Anchorage - independent cell growth is indicative of cell transformation resulting in acquisition of tumorigenic potential .
This has been suggested as one of the mechanisms to explain the mammography paradox for women aged 40 - 49 years .
Transformed cells exhibited lower levels of RNA as compared with normal fibroblasts .
After confirmation by immunocytochemical staining , their expression in patient samples was measured using 40 pairs of undifferentiated NPCs together with their adjacent normal epithelia .
Domain 5 of cleaved high molecular weight kininogen inhibits endothelial cell migration through Akt .
Genomic instability is one mechanism proposed to play a role in the disease progression of chronic myeloid leukemia ( CML ) .
Semaphorin 7A ( Sema7A ) is a membrane - linked semaphorin that is expressed by human keratinocytes , and we have shown that Sema7A binds to human melanocytes through beta1 - integrins and the Plexin C1 receptor .
Apart from the vascular grade , none of the other factors examined was statistically related to lymph node metastasis ( P less than 0 . 0001 ) .
METHODS : Primary lung cancers ( n = 269 ) and non neoplastic lung tissue ( n = 35 ) were tested for LDH5 expression by immunohistochemistry using a polyclonal LDH5 antibody ( ab53010 ) .
BACKGROUND : The coagulation function in patients with pancreatic carcinoma is abnormal and the reason is not very clear .
Prostate cancer dissemination is difficult to detect in the clinic , and few treatment options exist for patients with advanced - stage disease .
DAPT delivery from the hydrogels also did not lead to any adverse side effects , in contrast to systemic introduction of DAPT .
Expression , regulation , and function of IGF - 1 , IGF - 1R , and IGF - 1 binding proteins in blood vessels .
IUGR fetuses are both hypoxic and hypoglycaemic , and have reduced insulin and insulin - like growth factor - 1 ( IGF - 1 ) , and elevated concentrations of lactate .
In vitro assays have indicated that c - myc may be a target gene of c - Myb ; however , regulation of the resident chromosomal gene has not yet been demonstrated .
Mitochondrial apoptosis and FAK signaling disruption by a novel histone deacetylase inhibitor , HTPB , in antitumor and antimetastatic mouse models .
The characteristics of HPCs in PET described herein for the first time offer additional diagnostic criteria and may help especially to differentiate these tumors from meningiomas .
Reciprocal bone marrow transplants that involved both wild - type and PECAM - 1 - deficient mice revealed that the impaired angiogenic response resulted from a loss of endothelial , but not leukocyte , PECAM - 1 .
Angiopoietin - 2 ( Ang - 2 ) is prominently up - regulated in the host - derived vasculature of most tumors , making it an attractive candidate for antiangiogenic intervention .
The mammalian proto - oncogene Cbl and its cellular homologues in Caenorhabditis elegans ( Sli - 1 ) and Drosophila ( D - Cbl ) are negative regulators of some growth factor receptor signaling pathways .
Prolonged culture led to the implantation of cancer cells into the monolayer of the F - 2 cells , which was mediated mainly by alpha ( 3 ) beta ( 1 ) - integrin .
However , it is clear that the Notch signaling pathway mediates its effects through intercellular contact between neighboring cells .
Furthermore , thrombin increases the secretion of VEGF and enhances the expression and protein synthesis of matrix metalloprotease - 9 and alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) integrin in human prostate cancer PC - 3 cells .
The single non - epithelial line induced foci and was found to contain an activated c - Ki - ras gene with a G - - - - A transition in codon 12 .
The factor is present in medium conditioned by mast cells as well as lysates of mast cells .
Gene therapy for gliomas : p53 and E2F - 1 proteins and the target of apoptosis .
Assuming discrimination thresholds between high - grade and low - grade tumours of 0 . 8 for 18F - FDG uptake and 1 . 8 for 123I - IMT uptake , the accuracy values of 18F - FDG PET and 123I - IMT SPET for differentiating between high - grade and low - grade tumours were 21 / 23 ( 91 % ) and 19 / 23 ( 83 % ) , respectively .
Both cis - 9 , trans - 11 and trans - 10 , cis - 12 CLA isomers were effective in inhibiting angiogenesis in vitro in a dose - dependent fashion .
The area and the area ratio were measured using a calibrated micrometer .
Emergence of the RUNX1 mutations was detected at diagnosis or before the acquisition of trisomy 21 during disease progression .
We propose that this novel , central metabolic role is at the core of the addiction for STAT3 shown by so many biologically different tumours .
The patient received a prescription for 100 mg Ultralan to be taken daily for 3 days and then tapered in 3 day steps .
In co - transfection experiments , exogenous expression of AP - 2gamma robustly activated ErbB - 3 promoter activity .
Only 26 protein spots had a positive result , including annexin1 , S100A4 , and so on .
Sci .
VEGF is the key player in tumor angiogenesis .
Efficacy was demonstrated particularly for chronic synovitis and pain and no serious adverse events occurred .
Interestingly , both constitutively active and kinase - inactive Hck interact with and are targeted for degradation by Cbl .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is a major regulator of angiogenesis that binds to tyrosine kinase receptors Flt - 1 and KDR .
PURPOSE : To optimize the method of treating choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) associated with age - related macular degeneration ( AMD ) .
However , the function of bFGF in parenchymal cells remains to be determined .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is one of the most potent and a specific regulator of angiogenesis which principally targets endothelial cells and regulates several of their functions , including mitogenesis , permeability and migration .
Targeting PIM kinases impairs survival of hematopoietic cells transformed by kinase inhibitor - sensitive and kinase inhibitor - resistant forms of Fms - like tyrosine kinase 3 and BCR / ABL .
Studies , both in human and animal models support the notion that , various angiogenic growth factors and progenitor cells can enhance new blood vessels .
TEMF treatment continued for 3 additional weeks .
Besides regulating leukocyte trafficking in normal and injured tissues , several chemokines may positively or negatively regulate angiogenesis .
Ang1 inhibits the activation of Src by VEGF , the most upstream component of the pathway linking VEGF receptors to VE - cadherin internalization .
Recently , it was shown that Stat3 is activated through novel and noncanonical mechanisms , including phosphorylation at S727 .
Decrease in c - Myc activity enhances cancer cell sensitivity to vinblastine .
Some mice in each group were euthanized 24 hours after the end of IR .
These studies suggest that Hedgehog signaling regulates melanoma related vascular formation and function .
This resulted in beta tumor cell metastases in distant organs and local lymph nodes , demonstrating a role for pericytes in limiting tumor cell metastasis .
Consistent with these apoptotic effects , our results showed that sunitinib inhibited phosphorylation of Akt and mTOR and was followed by a reduction of S6K1 , which is a well - known target of mTOR .
CONCLUSION : Calretinin is a very useful marker for positive identification of normal and tumor mesothelial cells in serous effusions .
This review provides basic information for the understanding of the biology of NF - kappaB and aims at presenting experimental data illustrating the involvement of NF - kappaB / Rel in pancreatic cancer .
[ Study of fungus polysaccharides compounds ( FPC ) in inducing the apoptosis of liver cancer cell Bel - 7402 ] .
Furthermore , we showed that glycogen was depleted in a low glucose medium , but conserved under hypoxic conditions .
Desensitization of prostaglandin F2 alpha - stimulated inositol phosphate generation in NIH - 3T3 fibroblasts transformed by overexpression of normal c - Ha - ras - 1 , c - Ki - ras - 2 and c - N - ras genes .
A putative progestin - response element was identified in the human TSP - 1 promoter , which is consistent with the hypothesis that a progestin - PR complex might directly regulate transcription of the TSP - 1 gene in human cells .
The NBD peptide suppressed metastasis and tongue tumor growth in GSAS / N5 - inoculated mice , and was accompanied by the downregulation of the NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules in engrafted tongue tumors .
Similarly , flow cytometric measurements revealed that leukocyte apoptosis was increased in MTX - treated animals , while L - Car reversed these effects .
In addition , our in vivo studies indicated that the lenti - BI - 1 - infected cells formed obvious tumours , while no tumours were formed by the control cells after subcutaneously injected into nude mice .
TRADD domain of Epstein - Barr virus transforming protein LMP1 is essential for inducing immortalization and suppressing senescence of primary rodent fibroblasts .
There was also an up - regulation of Bax , which altered the Bax : Bcl - 2 ratio , which may be responsible for mitochondrial depolarization reported to be involved prior to the induction of apoptosis .
Fluorescein angiograms were reviewed retrospectively to identify juxtafoveal CNV .
Inhibition of PDGF - stimulated and matrix - mediated proliferation of human vascular smooth muscle cells by SPARC is independent of changes in cell shape or cyclin - dependent kinase inhibitors .
However , recent observations suggest more caution in accepting such a hypothesis .
Activation of the canonical WNT / TCF pathway is identified here as a determinant of metastasis to brain and bone during lung adenocarcinoma progression .
VTAs inhibit specific factors required to induce and direct the angiogenic process , with major activity against small tumor masses and at the tumor periphery , encompassing monoclonal antibodies and small molecules inhibitors of the tyrosine kinase domain of the VEGF receptor .
Targeting wide - range oncogenic transformation via PU24FCl , a specific inhibitor of tumor Hsp90 .
Dopamine regulates phosphorylation of VEGF receptor 2 by engaging Src - homology - 2 - domain - containing protein tyrosine phosphatase 2 .
The adenomatous polyposis coli ( APC ) gene , whose mutations are responsible for familial adenomatous polyposis , is a major negative controller of the Wnt / beta - catenin pathway .
Conditioned media obtained from distinct tumour types with unique patterns of metastatic spread redirected fibronectin expression and cluster formation , thereby transforming the metastatic profile .
CONCLUSIONS : Insulin increases VEGF mRNA and secreted protein levels in RPE cells through enhanced transcription of the VEGF gene .
The proliferative response of bovine retinal capillary endothelial cells to EGF is dependent upon attaching the cells to a matrix of fibronectin .
Cancer 2010 .
We verified the predicted ELK - 1 - - > tPA transcriptional regulatory relationship using a luciferase reporter assay .
Postoperative progression of pulmonary metastasis in osteosarcoma .
The difference in metastatic potential correlated with the endogenous production levels of lymphangiogenic growth factor VEGF - C and the presence of tumor lymphatics .
RESULTS : Methylation - specific polymerase chain reaction revealed PTEN promoter methylation in 15 . 9 % CCMs .
[ Clinical significance of interleukin - 6 ( IL - 6 ) as a prognostic factor of cancer disease ]
No correlations were observed between glycolytic rates and pAkt levels .
The most intense immunoreactivity was observed in branching capillaries .
OSCC sublines were established from a GFP - expressing parental cell line , GSAS , and designated GSAS / N3 and N5 according to the in vivo passage number after cervical lymph node metastasis by a serial orthotopic transplantation model .
The mechanism of TP induction is not yet completely clear , but TNF , IL10 and other cytokines have been clearly shown to induce its expression .
BACKGROUND : Breast cancers have higher than normal glucose metabolism , but the mechanism of glucose entry into these tumors is not well understood .
These findings indicated that DATS inhibits tumor growth in an allograft animal model .
Neoplastic progression of human colorectal cancer is associated with overexpression of the stromelysin - 3 and BM - 40 / SPARC genes .
However , the strong increase of angiogenesis in AOGEN - transgenic mice compared with mice with normal ANG II levels suggests additional stimulatory activity .
Insulin - induced vascular endothelial growth factor expression in retina .
Elevated serum soluble VAP - 1 ( sVAP - 1 ) levels occur in certain diseases having an inflammatory component .
CONCLUSIONS : Indocyanine green dye - enhanced photocoagulation of CNV feeder vessels , facilitated by use of a device that permits real - time visualization of the choroidal circulation while aiming the treatment laser beam , appears to minimize the amount of energy applied to the fundus and the volume of fundus tissue affected by treatment , compared with other treatment modalities .
Delayed addition of GM - CSF , but not FBS , permitted partial rescue of the cells , inhibiting increasing rates of accumulation of fragmented DNA .
Thus , angiogenesis is a physiologic event in normal postnatal murine skin , apparently is dictated by the hair follicle , and appears to be required for normal anagen development .
The relative resistance of PC - 3 cells to drug - induced apoptosis was associated with constitutive Akt activation , higher levels of cFLIP - L and Bcl - 2 , and lower levels of Bax .
The ability of E7 to complex with p600 correlated with its ability to enhance anchorage independence of BPV - 1 E6 - expressing cells .
The polycomb gene Bmi - 1 is required for the self - renewal of stem cells from diverse tissues , including the central nervous system ( CNS ) .
Oncostatin M ( OSM ) , an IL - 6 family cytokine responsible for STAT3 activation , has been implicated in cancer development , progression , invasion , and metastasis .
The appearance of lipid - bloated subretinal MCs was drusen - like on funduscopy of senescent mice , and CX3CR1 - dependent MC accumulation was associated with an exacerbation of experimental CNV .
For this reason , formalin - fixed , paraffin - embedded specimens from 130 patients with squamous cell lung carcinomas were analyzed by immunohistochemistry .
Energy metabolism of freshly harvested Ehrlich ascites tumour cells in the presence of 5 mM glucose and / or 0 . 5 mM glutamine was studied .
These findings also illustrate an operational link between VPF / VEGF induction of EC gene expression and VPF / VEGF enhancement of microvascular permeability , suggesting that these distinct biological activities may act accordingly to stimulate EC migration during angiogenesis .
Among the sequence variations , there was a change from G to T at nucleotide position 169 , 426 , resulting in the loss of an XhoI site in exon 1 of the LMP gene .
Four drugs with potential anti - peritumoral brain edema activity were studied using the VX2 rabbit brain tumor model .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the effect of osteopontin silencing on the invasion and apoptosis of U251 cells .
These inhibitors are directed towards the receptors of VEGF or intracellular substrates for the receptors .
In contrast to the results obtained with c - jun , the levels of junB mRNA and protein were found to be reduced two - or threefold in revertant EMS - 1 - 19 .
The relationship between P185neu - protein tyrosine kinase expression and specific PTPase expression may play a critical role in human breast tumorigenesis .
In vivo glucose and alanine kinetics were examined by tracer methodology in a sarcoma - bearing rat model .
Three patients developed deep vein thromboses and two heavily pretreated patients developed treatment - related acute myelogenous leukemia or myelodysplasia after 3 . 7 and 12 months of therapy .
Therefore , we next examined the effect of DMI on Ca3 / 7 cells , resistant to growth inhibition by the synthetic glucocorticoid fluocinolone acetonide ( FA ) .
2ME2 resulted in decreased nuclear HIF - 1alpha - binding activity and affected the expression of downstream genes , such as bid , a proapoptotic bcl - 2 family member , and vascular endothelial growth factor , a proangiogenic cytokine .
Tumors greater than 35 mm3 treated with IR 24 hours previously or with TEMF had decreased blood vessels in the subcortex and more endothelial pseudopods projecting into hypoxic , HIF positive areas than tumors from the control group .
Clear cell renal cell carcinoma ( CC - RCC ) is a highly vascularised tumour and is therefore an attractive disease to study angiogenesis and to test novel angiogenesis inhibitors in early clinical development .
The vascular anomalies seem to precede the development of histologic lesions in some instances .
M - CSF also induced the nuclear localization of Sp1 , which was blocked by ERK inhibition .
To investigate the potential role of BI - 1 in promoting cell growth and tumorigenesis , in the present study we overexpressed the BI - 1 gene in NIH3T3 cells using the lentivirus - mediated gene expression system .
The apoptotic cascade was studied by immunoblot analysis of caspases following Sim treatment .
Group 2 animals had the same procedure of DMBA applications but also received alpha tocopherol .
HYPOTHESIS : We speculate that there is a burst of angiogenesis of distant dormant micrometastases after surgery in approximately 20 % of premenopausal node - positive patients .
All of these results indicate that Akt / mTOR - dependent translation of HIF - 1alpha plays a critical role in the postirradiation up - regulation of intratumoral HIF - 1 activity in response to radiation - induced alterations of glucose and oxygen availability in a solid tumor .
ERK1 / 2 and JNK inactivation was associated with Ets - like transcription factor - 1 ( ELK - 1 ) dephosphorylation .
This transporter was expressed on the cell membrane and in the cytoplasm of the tumor cells , but exhibited marked intratumoral and intertumoral variability in the proportions of positive cells and the intensity of staining .
RESULTS : Serum nitrite levels were significantly lower in L - NIL groups ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
Suppressed transformation and induced differentiation of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells by emodin .
In breast cancer , biomarkers that specifically correlate with the invasive phenotypes have not been clearly identified .
Overall , our findings identify AMPK as an important target protein for mediating the anti - tumor properties of AglRhz in HT - 29 colon cancer cells and have important implication for sponges , the most important marine source , in colon cancer .
As such , sustained nuclear FOXO3a expression in breast cancer may culminate in cancer progression and the development of an aggressive phenotype similar to that observed in cytotoxic chemotherapy resistant breast cancer cell models .
In mice , xenografts of human glioblastoma U87MG , which has decreased expression of ING4 , grow significantly faster and have higher vascular volume fractions than control tumours .
We report one case of advanced gastric cancer with lung and lymph node metastases that completely responded to TS - 1 .
An understanding of the relative contribution of various pathways in the development of tumor vasculature is critical for developing effective and selective therapeutic approaches .
The loss of one allele of the p53 gene ( located on chromosome 17p13 ) occurred in at least 6 ( 60 % ) of the 10 patients who were heterozygous at the p53 locus .
Because many questions will require in vivo studies to be properly addressed , the zebrafish , with its unique accessibility to analysis by combined embryological , molecular , and genetic methods , should prove invaluable in identifying new molecules involved in blood vessel development and integrating pathways that influence embryonic blood vessel formation .
Both COL - I and COL - V showed statistically significant ( P less than 0 . 05 ) increased activity between day 7 and day 14 for pattern A , potentially indicating a continued effect on matrix remodeling .
The stromal fibrous reaction associated to infiltrating carcinomas is responsible of focal increased density , and architectural distorsion , ultrasound acoustic shadowing ; abnormal neoangiogenesis can be detected by Doppler , CT or MR imaging .
The tumor cells also display enhanced expression of desmosomal and tight - junction proteins .
We also demonstrated that Evi - 1 represses Smad - induced transcriptional activation by recruiting CtBP as a corepressor .
The pigment epithelium of the retina ( RPE ) is derived from the optic cup and is essential for function and development of the eye .
To examine the mechanisms by which insulin regulates VEGF expression , human retinal pigment epithelial ( RPE ) cells were exposed to insulin , and VEGF mRNA levels were quantified with RNase protection assays ( RPAs ) .
CONCLUSION : These results suggested that cisplatin induced a reduction of endothelial cell migration through an inhibition of MMP2 activity by downstream signal transduction pathways independent of JNK and p38 MAPK activation .
Ovarian cancers overexpress the antimicrobial protein hCAP - 18 and its derivative LL - 37 increases ovarian cancer cell proliferation and invasion .
We demonstrate for the first time that ERK5 signaling not only is involved in EC survival and stress response but also controls migration and morphology of EC .
In all cases , the somatostatin receptors were localized in veins , particularly in the smooth - muscle cell layer .
Over a million FDG - PET studies have unequivocally identified increased glucose uptake as a hallmark of metastatic cancer in humans .
However , additional transfection of TrkA into SY5Y - p75 cells resulted in a significantly reduced rate of apoptosis even in the absence of NGF .
We previously reported that VEGF induces DSCR - 1s expression in endothelial cells , which in turn negatively feeds back to attenuate endothelial cell activation .
Chemokine receptor CXCR4 expression , function , and clinical implications in gastric cancer .
317615 x 2HCl was an active antitumor agent against the MX - 1 xenograft and increased the tumor growth delay produced by paclitaxel by 1 . 7 - fold and the tumor growth delay produced by carboplatin by 3 . 8 - fold .
The Erbb2 receptor is activated by UV irradiation , the primary cause of non - melanoma skin cancer .
Urokinase receptor : a molecular organizer in cellular communication .
CONCLUSIONS : We have shown that patients with PDR have a lower coronary collateral score than patients without DR .
Overexpression of Glut - 1 glucose transporter in human breast cancer .
Arteriogenesis : the development and growth of collateral arteries .
Epithelial - mesenchymal transitions ( EMTs ) occur as key steps during embryonic morphogenesis , and are now implicated in the progression of primary tumors towards metastases .
CONCLUSIONS : PLGA microspheres with an open porous structure allowed significant amount of heparin immobilization and bFGF loading .
This review condenses the latest findings on the signaling pathways that are activated and / or regulated by molecules generated from Hedgehog signaling in cancer and cites promising clinical interventions .
GM - CSF or IL - 2 vaccines or gammaIFN decreased tumor nodules significantly ( GM - CSF 13 + / - 4 , IL - 2 14 + / - 6 vs . control 75 + / - 24 , P < 0 . 001 ) .
Evi - 1 associates with CtBP1 through one of the CtBP - binding consensus motifs within the region from amino acid 544 to 607 , and this association is required for the efficient inhibition of TGF - beta signaling .
METHODS : Using flow cytometry we evaluated 18 human lung cancer cell lines for the expression of different surface markers on lung cancers suggested to be possible prognostic parameters , including epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) , intercellular adhesion molecule 1 ( ICAM - 1 ) , Fas and CD40 .
Further , we implemented a noninvasive molecular imaging technique to facilitate the assessment of the metastatic process .
There was also a direct correlation between the presence of choroidal neovascularization and size of the PED ( P = 0 . 03 ) .
It is clear that this cycle functions optimally in skin of dark pigmentation .
This technique showed strong abdominal neovascularization in wild - type mice , but not eNOS knockout mice , locally injected with VEGF , as well as stimulation of angiogenesis in NO donor - injected mice .
Our in vitro studies showed that NIH3T3 cells overexpressing BI - 1 displayed a significantly higher growth rate and formed more and larger colonies than the control cells .
First clinical control with second angiography was performed 6 weeks after irradiation , then in 3 - month intervals .
We found that the severity of vascular abnormalities correlated positively with the severity of histologic epithelial lesions ; this finding is consistent with colposcopic results .
Finally , anti - p53 monoclonal antibodies only slightly affected in vitro phosphorylation reactions , whereas a p53 molecule from a simian virus 40 - free , chemically transformed human cell line was not phosphorylated in vitro under any condition tested .
SAHA enhanced acetylation of histone H3 in Bim promoter region , while E1A upregulated Egr - 1 , which was directly involved in Bim transactivation .
The number of retinal vascular findings was not significantly correlated with serous elevation of the retina .
The truncated fos protein that contains only part of the central region is not phosphorylated in chicken embryo fibroblasts , indicating that phosphorylation of the fos protein is not necessary for the transforming activity .
Decreased expression of TGF - beta RII in CML cells and leukemia cell lines raises the possibility that altered expression of the receptor may play a role in the initiation and / or maintenance of the disease state .
Retrospective case series of juxtafoveal choroidal neovascularization treated with photodynamic therapy with verteporfin .
Administration of thalidomide at the concentration of 0 . 01 microM increased cell migration , while at 10 microM , it decreased cell migration .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : Urine from 81 patients with RDEB ( 39 patients ) , junctional epidermolysis bullosa ( JEB ; 12 patients ) , and epidermolysis bullosa simplex ( EBS ; 30 patients ) , as well as unaffected family members of RDEB patients ( 33 patients ) , was tested for the presence of basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) using a sensitive radioimmunoassay .
However , its widespread application has been hampered by difficulties in the large - scale production of the antiangiogenic proteins .
Increased glycolysis is a characteristic of cancer cells .
Thalidomide had no direct effect on endothelial cells .
RESULTS : The apoptosis rate of the old donor - derived MSCs group was significantly higher than that of the young donor - derived MSCs group under conditions of ischemia and anoxia ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
The CD47 receptor did slightly increase with malignancy except for H3327 .
Betulin , unlike its chemical derivative betulinic acid , did not directly trigger mitochondrial cytochrome c release in isolated mitochondria .
This protein is produced in large amounts by fibroblasts cultivated in vitro .
Effect of 1 - alkylpyrrolidine N - oxides on energy metabolism of cancer cells .
Metastatic carcinoma of unknown primary origin is a perplexing but common problem , accounting for up to 10 % to 15 % of all solid tumors at presentation .
Use of iodine - 123 - alpha - methyl tyrosine ( 123I - IMT ) allows investigation of the amino acid transport rate in gliomas .
The ability of LRP - 1 to regulate expression of the factors identified here suggests a role for LRP - 1 in determining blood vessel structure and in angiogenesis .
This model will be useful for understanding mechanisms underlying vascular and angiogenic neoplasias , as well as for testing drugs designed to curtail aberrant EC growth .
Notably , the activation of BMPRII by BMP - 2 is required for modulation of Smad activation by NF - kappaB in PC cells .
Various studies using the mouse , quail / chick , and frog have uncovered a number of signals that guide these complex processes but many gaps still exist in our understanding of the mechanisms by which the embryonic vasculature is built .
Consistent with the decrease in lymph node metastasis , tumor lymphangiogenesis and expression of vascular endothelial growth factor C ( VEGF - C ) was significantly decreased in artemisinin - treated mice , as compared to control mice .
Transcriptional and post - translation regulation of the Tie1 receptor by fluid shear stress changes in vascular endothelial cells .
Multikinase inhibitor sorafenib inhibits proliferation and angiogenesis of tumors by suppressing the Raf / MEK / ERK signaling pathway and VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase .
The presence of activating TSH - R mutations has also been demonstrated in differentiated thyroid carcinomas .
Dietary conjugated linoleic acid ( CLA ) has been shown previously to inhibit rat mammary carcinogenesis .
Spironolactone affected both systemic ( down - regulation of CD25 + cells in spleen ) and local immune response ( up - regulation of IL - 10 in cornea ) .
Expression of the cytolytic effectors perforin , granzyme B9 , and the granule membrane protein TIA1 were examined in 24 putative NK - cell lymphomas , 18 postthymic T - cell lymphomas ( one case CD8 + CD56 + and three anaplastic large cell lymphomas ( ALCL ) , three T - lymphoblastic lymphomas , and 20 B - cell lymphomas .
RAF265 inhibited 2 - deoxy - 2 - [ ( 18 ) F ] fluoro - d - glucose ( FDG ) accumulation in cell culture at 28 hours in a dose - dependent manner .
We now report that a nearby residue , Thr - 495 , also appears to be phosphorylated .
Thus , supplementation with L - Carnitine as an adjuvant therapy may be promising in alleviating the systemic side - effects of chemotherapeutics .
Seventy - five patients underwent biopsies of carcinomas metastatic to the brain .
The cell autonomous function of p53 in melanocytes is not well described , however , the balance of the evidence suggests that p53 is an effective tumor suppressor and the myriad of mechanisms by which the p53 pathway may be dysregulated in tumors attests to it importance as a tumor suppressor .
This phenotype was most likely based on decreased focal contact turnover caused by reduced expression of p130Cas , a key player in directed cell migration .
Somatostatin receptors were detected in peritumoral veins of various human cancer tissue specimens .
Bevacizumab was discontinued in 2 patients because of nonfatal intracranial bleeding .
When BB - 94 , a matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor , was added to the culture medium of Ras - expressing cells , it caused a cell aggregation phenotype similar to that caused by TEL expression .
To investigate the significance of the C - terminal Abl actin - binding domain within Bcr / Abl p190 in the development of leukemia / lymphoma in vivo , mutant p190 DNA constructs were used to generate transgenic mice .
Adenovirus - mediated gene transfer of endostatin in vivo results in high level of transgene expression and inhibition of tumor growth and metastases .
CD40 engagement by CD154 did not affect apoptosis or survival .
Notably , three immortalizing E6 mutants that do not induce direct p53 degradation but do interact with hADA3 induced the abrogation of p53 - mediated transactivation and G ( 1 ) cell cycle arrest after DNA damage , comparable to wild - type E6 .
We quantified the expression of alpha - SMA as a marker of myofibroblasts in the invasive breast cancer .
Effects of 3 - chloromethylthiochromone - 1 , 1 - dioxide on nucleic acid , protein , and aerobic and anaerobic metabolism of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells .
To date , the potential oncogenic properties of Tsg101 have not been examined in vivo owing to the lack of appropriate model systems .
Epithelial keratitis and corneal edema also developed in the immunized animals during the first week after virus challenge , but these symptoms rapidly resolved during the following weeks .
WT1 was isolated as a tumor suppressor gene of Wilms tumor .
Consistent with the in vitro data , GSE treatment of tumor - bearing mice led to concomitant reduction of blood vessel density and phosphorylation of mitogen - activated protein kinase .
We have previously described a group of genes that is rapidly up - regulated in these cells following dexamethasone ( Dex ) treatment .
Dysregulation of the signaling mechanisms of the TGF - beta superfamily proteins is associated with clinical diseases such as cancer , fibrotic diseases , and vascular disorders .
Smooth muscle - rich tissues respond to mechanical overload by an adaptive hypertrophic growth combined with activation of angiogenesis , which potentiates their mechanical overload - bearing capabilities .
It is questionable , whether collateral arteries also form de novo in ischemic vascular diseases .
In contrast , ectopic TSP - 1 expression in SiHa cells has little effect on the invasive ability of the NIH3T3 cells .
SVLT mutants , defective either in the Rb binding site , near the N - terminal end , in a region that affects binding to p53 , or in the nuclear transport signal , were also employed to determine whether the interference was especially dependent on these functional domains .
The results showed that expression levels of both nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 mRNA varied in normal buccal mucosa , leukoplakia , adjacent nontumorous mucosa , submandibular gland , CBM and lymph nodes with or without metastasis .
This is the first report of increased p53 levels caused by HCMV in infected fibroblasts .
TF is involved in cell migration , embryogenesis and angiogenesis .
However , when the same cells were exposed to step - wise increases of TGF - beta concentration in their culture medium , the development of TGF - beta resistance was accelerated .
Regulation of transforming growth factor - beta signaling and vascular diseases .
Although insulin sensitivity of skeletal muscle was also reduced in patients with lymphoma , the net insulin effect may counteract imbalance between glucose uptake of tumor and muscle , offering a potential means to circumvent at least some metabolic abnormalities found in cancer .
We have examined this hypothesis using a model that measures the neovascularization of an implanted foreign material .
Little is known about the metabolic adaptation of endothelial cells through such a transformation .
In agreement , induced overexpression of VEGF - C in LAPC - 9 enhanced tumor lymphangiogenesis leading to the development of metastatic lesions .
Antiangiogenesis therapy might have a role in reducing regional metastasis .
In parallel , we assessed several human melanoma biopsy samples and found again that AKT2 was the predominantly activated AKT in these human melanoma biopsies .
We developed reference intervals for serum and urine IL - 8 level in 131 control individuals .
Moreover , both the accelerated translation and the previously reported reactive oxygen species - mediated stabilization of HIF - 1alpha protein were essential to the activation of HIF - 1 .
Moreover , the M2 - PK - binding peptide aptamers also reduced the proliferation rate of human U - 2 OS osteosarcoma cells .
TRAP - activated platelets stimulated a dose - dependent increase in SKOV3 cell invasion .
These angiogenic activities are neutralized by a specific antibody against CCL16 .
The nucleotide sequence of the cDNA was shown to be identical to that of the 3 ' untranslated region of a putative mammalian polycomb group gene , mel - 18 .
The metastatic potentials of several human prostate cancer xenograft models , LAPC - 4 , LAPC - 9 , PC3 and CWR22Rv - 1 were compared .
DLC1 protein level is elevated in more than 90 % of human breast tumors .
RESULTS : VEGF expression was observed in 58 . 3 % , and p53 protein expression was observed in 61 . 7 % of the 60 patients .
BACKGROUND : Recent data suggest that anti - tumor activities of interleukin - 12 ( IL - 12 ) involve the induction of apoptosis .
Recombinant EBV containing LMP1 with TES2 deleted induces a limited proliferation of B cells .
In this communication , we describe an alternative approach that begins with teleology ; i . e . adaptive landscapes and selection pressures that promote emergence of aerobic glycolysis during the somatic evolution of invasive cancer .
Mutant mice lacking both cyclin - dependent kinase ( CDK ) inhibitors p18 ( Ink4c ) and p27 ( Kip1 ) develop a tumor spectrum reminiscent of human multiple endocrine neoplasia ( MEN ) syndromes .
Moreover , there is a positive correlation between phosphoS727 - Stat3 expression and Gleason score in these prostate cancer tissues ( P = 0 . 05 ) .
The fibrinolytic ( plasminogen / plasmin ) and matrix metalloproteinase ( MMP ) systems cooperate in these processes .
Malignancy in cancer is associated with aerobic glycolysis ( Warburg effect ) evidenced by increased trapping of [ ( 18 ) F ] deoxyglucose ( FdG ) in patients imaged by positron emission tomography ( PET ) .
In this review , this evidence is surveyed together with evidence from analogous situations , such as tumour cell migration and invasiveness .
The stimulatory effect of mast cells on migration is specific for capillary endothelial cells .
Our data may have implications for the development of novel regimens for diabetic retinopathy .
Topo I protein expression was detected in 127 ( 51 % ) samples , including 24 . 4 % with > 50 % positive tumor cells .
In addition , cross - talk between the IGF system and other growth factors and integrin receptors has been demonstrated .
Oxidation in rheumatoid arthritis .
Curcumin also significantly decreased ( P < 0 . 05 ) the expression of uPA and NF - kappaB DNA binding activity , respectively .
Obesity is a common disorder and related diseases such as diabetes , atherosclerosis , hypertension , cardiovascular disease and cancer are a major cause of mortality and morbidity in Western - type societies .
VEGF165 mediates formation of complexes containing VEGFR - 2 and neuropilin - 1 that enhance VEGF165 - receptor binding .
Potential roles for focal adhesion kinase in development .
Changes of bile reflux to the stomach was observed endoscopically at 24 weeks as well as the development of gastric mucosal erosions .
Paclitaxel , a potent anti - neoplastic agent , has been found to be effective against several tumours , including cervical cancer .
Using recombinant viruses that lack only one member of the cluster , we now show that all three BHRF1 miRNAs contribute to B - cell transformation .
Selective inhibition of nuclear factor - kappaB by nuclear factor - kappaB essential modulator - binding domain peptide suppresses the metastasis of highly metastatic oral squamous cell carcinoma .
Recent studies have shown that E - cadherin has an important role as an invasion suppressor molecule in epithelial tumor cells .
The protein and water component of brain edema were indirectly quantitated .
The anti - tumour effect of L - NAME after systemic administration was studied in a renal subcapsular CC531 adenocarcinoma model in rats .
These data suggest that c - FLIP may play a critical role in regulating Fas - mediated apoptosis in prostate cancer cells and that modulation of c - FLIP may enhance Fas signaling based therapies .
HIF - 2alpha was detected in hypoxic and in well - oxygenized neuroblastoma cells and tissue , presumably reflecting their embryonic features .
Lewis lung carcinoma .
Oncogenic mechanisms of Evi - 1 protein .
Organ biodistribution studies revealed that galectin - 3C localized in the liver , kidneys , and spleen but not in the heart or lungs .
Topotecan - and gimatecan induced moderate up - regulation of TRAIL - R1 and - R2 which resulted in a different cell response to the combination in androgen - independent cells ( DU - 145 and PC - 3 ) .
Paclitaxel treatment resulted in MAPK activation and apoptosis of MDA - MB - 231 breast cancer cells , and both processes were inhibited by Dex pretreatment .
After SCC transformation , the absence of G45 domain in DeltaG45 cells was associated with deficient extracellular signal - regulated kinase and phosphotidylinositol 3 - kinase ( PI3K ) pathway activation , impaired invasion , deficient metalloproteinase activity , and absent tumorgenicity in vivo .
PURPOSE : To assess the safety and effectiveness of photodynamic therapy ( PDT ) with verteporfin for subfoveal choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) secondary to pathologic myopia ( PM ) .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : The tissues were stained with monoclonal antibodies to EGFR , TGF - alpha and Ki - 67 .
A p53 mutant , p53R172P , which is deficient for apoptosis but retains a partial cell cycle arrest function , delays tumor onset in mice .
The principal types of tumors were plasmacytomas secreting immunoglobulin and novel lymphomas that expressed markers such as Sca - 1 , CD4 , Thy - 1 , CD34 and CD45 ( B220 ) , consistent with an origin very early in B - lymphoid development .
Directed EC migration is a central step in this process and depends on cellular signaling cascades that initiate and control the structural rearrangements .
Expression of G45 or activated PI3K subunit in DeltaG45 cells reversed these abnormalities .
The control WB cells in continuous culture slowly developed TGF - beta resistance .
The Akt / mTOR pathway assures the synthesis of HIF - 1alpha protein in a glucose - and reoxygenation - dependent manner in irradiated tumors .
Promotion of inflammation was also involved because lower TSP - 1 was able to up - regulate the adhesion molecules intercellular adhesion molecule - 1 and vascular cell adhesion molecule - 1 .
Because PIM - 1 is a STAT5 target gene , we analyzed the role of the family of PIM serine / threonine kinases ( PIM - 1 to PIM - 3 ) in PTK - mediated transformation of hematopoietic cells .
Prophylactic thyroidectomy in MEN IIA : does the calcitonin level correlate with tumor spread ?
During embryogenesis , vascular and hemopoietic cells originate from a common precursor , the hemangioblast .
The authors studied insulin effects on tumor and skeletal muscle metabolism with 2 - [ 18F ] - fluoro - 2 - deoxy - D - glucose ( [ 18F ] FDG ) and positron emission tomography ( PET ) .
Expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA increased in 33 of 41 colon tumors , and expression of nm23 - H2 mRNA was elevated in 28 of 41 colon tumors relative to that in matched normal mucosa .
The biological effect of the perfluorocarbon - based artificial oxygen carrier ( Oxygent ) was investigated in tissue - engineered trachea ( TET ) construction .
Effect of platelet - rich plasma and fibrin glue on healing of critical - size calvarial bone defects .
Thus , a distinct WNT / TCF signaling program through LEF1 and HOXB9 enhances the competence of lung adenocarcinoma cells to colonize the bones and the brain .
Comparison of tissue integration between polyester and polypropylene prostheses in the preperitoneal space .
Pancreatic somatostatin - secreting gangliocytic paraganglioma with lymph node metastases .
Angiogenesis is essential for tumor growth and metastasis .
Induction of Id - 1 by FGF - 2 involves activity of EGR - 1 and sensitizes neuroblastoma cells to cell death .
The accumulation of genetic alterations of some proto - oncogens , like the erbB - family , may be part of the mechanism , by which malignant cells can acquire a selective growth advantage .
Our previous in vitro studies in a rat model indicated that insulin - like growth factor - I ( IGF - I ) is a potent angiogenic agent for fetal lung endothelial cells .
In vitro migration and invasion were assessed in these cells , and the NF - kappaB activities and expression of NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules were also examined .
The increased migration ability and the invasive ability into tumor cluster of TGF - beta - treated NIH3T3 cells were dose dependently inhibited by TSP - 1 .
Activation - induced cytidine deaminase in antibody diversification and chromosome translocation .
The down - regulation of p21WAF1 closely correlated with poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase cleavage and CPP32 activation .
Acute ethanol exposure disrupts VEGF receptor cell signaling in endothelial cells .
Caspase 8 ( involved in non - mitochondrial extrinsic pathway ) and caspase 9 ( involved in mitochondrial intrinsic pathway ) were also activated , but to a much lesser extent .
The authors evaluated the association between MDM2 expression and local failure , distant metastasis ( DM ) , cause - specific mortality , and overall mortality in men treated in Radiation Therapy Oncology Group 8610 with radiotherapy , with or without androgen deprivation .
The bFGF loaded PLGA - heparin microspheres were tested for in vitro release and in vivo angiogenic activity .
We measured serum IL - 8 and urine IL - 8 levels in patients with NHL , and we compared the concentrations with those of control individuals .
Aberrant expression of Evi - 1 has been frequently found in myeloid leukemia , and is associated with a poor patient survival .
Thus , SPARC , previously characterized as an inhibitor of platelet - derived growth factor binding to its receptor , also antagonizes smooth muscle cell proliferation mediated by monomeric collagen at the level of cyclin - dependent kinase - 2 activity .
The delayed application of corticosteroids after treatment with antimycotic drugs in cases of fungal keratitis is therefore not contraindicated and may be beneficial in patients .
Together these results indicated that the revertant phenotype did not result from altered expression or mutations in the c - jun gene .
Yet , tumor growth in wild - type and Ang - 2 - deficient mice dissociated during early stages of tumor development , whereas tumor growth rates during later stages of primary tumor progression were similar .
The latter phenomenon was accompanied by an increase in the mdr - 1 mRNA expression , cellular glutathione level , and glutathione S - transferase activity .
An angiostatin - mimetic activity has recently been observed using a polyclonal antibody against the beta catalytic subunit of ATP synthase .
Swift elimination of undesirable cells is an important feature in tumour suppression and immunity .
Metabolic thresholds were derived at tumor glucose utilization values of 70 . 6 + / - 8 . 3 mumol / 100 g / min for reduced protein synthesis , of 55 . 0 + / - 0 . 2 mumol / 100 g / min for the decrease in glucose content , and 34 . 7 + / - 4 . 7 mumol / 100 g / min for decline in ATP content .
OBJECTIVE : We transfected ovarian cancer cells and administered recombinant plasmid encoding hPNAS - 4 to nude mice bearing ovarian cancer , aiming to evaluate the effect of hPNAS - 4 against ovarian cancer in vitro and in vivo .
Aglycon of rhizochalin from the Rhizochalina incrustata induces apoptosis via activation of AMP - activated protein kinase in HT - 29 colon cancer cells .
This study establishes the potential of metabolic targeting as a broader means to kill and sensitize myeloma and identifies a compound that can achieve this goal .
The role of p53 in glucose metabolism .
This elevation was verified at both the mRNA and protein levels .
Many studies on carcinogenesis carried out early in the last century are united on the consensus that cancer is a genetic disease .
Host - derived angiopoietin - 2 affects early stages of tumor development and vessel maturation but is dispensable for later stages of tumor growth .
Clinically , patients with advanced cancer are usually in a hypercoagulable state with elevated fibrinogen , and fibrin deposition around tumor mass is a serious problem in cancer chemotherapy .
p53 hot - spot mutants increase tumor vascularization via ROS - mediated activation of the HIF1 / VEGF - A pathway .
Breast tissue taken at varying postoperative times ( n = 92 ) or during surgery ( controls , n = 17 ) , was used to investigate the temporal and spatial activity of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 during human wound healing .
Age alone should not preclude the use of chemotherapy in stage IV colorectal cancer , although the ability to tolerate drug - related toxicity may be a consideration .
Our results showed that curcumin dose - dependently inhibited ( P < 0 . 05 ) the proliferation of MCF - 7 cells .
Tsg101 is upregulated in a subset of invasive human breast cancers and its targeted overexpression in transgenic mice reveals weak oncogenic properties for mammary cancer initiation .
However , we demonstrate a novel and more complex role for PSMA in angiogenesis , where it is a principal component of a regulatory loop that is tightly modulating laminin - specific integrin signaling and GTPase - dependent , p21 - activated kinase 1 ( PAK - 1 ) activity .
Electronmicroscopically , thrombus formation in the primary site prevented tumor invasion and metastasis formation .
This review will focus on perlecan - growth factor interactions and describe recent advances in our understanding of this highly conserved proteoglycan during development , cancer growth , and angiogenesis .
Mutation of p53 may play an important role in the high proliferative activity of tumors in the RSCM group and H . pylori infection may be closely related to carcinogenesis in patients with RSC .
Angiogenesis is the biologic process of forming new blood vessels .
In contrast , KATO III cells expressed membrane CXCR4 .
The high - oncogenic - risk HPV types associated with invasive cervical cancer produce two oncoproteins , designated E6 and E7 , which interact with endogenous cell cycle regulatory proteins , including p53 and Rb .
Moreover , the tumor vascular bed can be manipulated facilitating enhanced permissiveness of the tumor for administered chemotherapeutics .
We show that restoration of FOXO3a in FOXO3a - deficient LAC cells increases sensitivity to apoptosis caused by a DNA - damaging intermediate of NNK .
Sixty - eight percent of tumors in this group were vimentin positive and 88 % of all vimentin - positive tumors fell into this category .
There is accumulating evidence of a role for IGF - 1 in multiple vascular pathologies , including atherosclerosis , hypertension , restenosis , angiogenesis , and diabetic vascular disease .
To address this question , we used the proteomic approach of tandem affinity purification to identify cellular proteins that are in complex with E7 , and identified the 600 - kDa protein , p600 , as a binding partner of E7 .
Lysophosphatidic acid ( LPA ) levels are elevated in ascites from ovarian cancer patients , but its potential role in ovarian cancer metastasis has just begun to be revealed .
The development and progression of colorectal cancer ( CRC ) is a multi - step process , and the Wnt pathways with its two molecular gladiators adenomatous polyposis coli ( APC ) and beta - catenin plays an important role in transforming a normal tissue into a malignant one .
Also , the grafts maintain a constant volume between 3 and 8 weeks , thereby indicating that primary skin fibroblasts do not produce tumors .
Here we describe a 185 - kDa tandem duplication mutant ( TDM ) that is expressed in KE and A - 1235 glioma cells , along with certain functional characteristics of the mutants .
These findings elucidate the molecular mechanisms of PTTG overexpression in promoting tumor metastasis , whereby up - regulated PTTG modulates expression and secretion of metastasis - related factors to facilitate cell motility .
Ruffling occurs only on the expression of forms of VASP that possess bundling activity and the capacity to bind zyxin / vinculin - derived peptide .
One hundred mg / body / day of TS - 1 was orally administrated for 4 weeks .
Stimulation of tumor angiogenesis was connected with about 2 - fold increase in intracellular level of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) .
Terminal transferase dUTP end - labeling assay and TEM studies of anti - IGF - IR - treated lungs demonstrated numerous apoptotic mesenchymal cells .
Statistically significant differences were observed between groups 1 and 4 and between groups 1 and 3 regarding the hydroxyproline content of the abdominal wounds .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the effect of the expression and mutation of c - kit gene and its relationship with clinical pathology and prognosis of gastrointestinal stromal tumor ( GIST ) .
High osteonectin expression was correlated with high lung colonization .
CONCLUSION : Immunohistochemically confirmed significance of the expression of VEGF in dependence of the CML stage could be of clinical importance in deciding on the timing therapy .
The latter in its parent form or in its sugar form , deoxyribose ( dR ) may play a role in the induction of angiogenesis .
Administration of exogenous polyamines prevented ACA - induced apoptosis represented by a reduction in the number of apoptotic bodies and also caused reduction in the induced caspase - 3 - like protease activity at 8 h .
NaF reduced the glucose consumption at early stage , possibly by inhibition of glycolysis , whereas cisplatin and etoposide reduced the glucose consumption at later stage , suggesting that early decline of glucose consumption is rather specific to NaF .
This work is again extremely significant for patients worldwide , as Dvorak ' s scientific research is leading his colleagues all over the world to examine how to treat a tumor through its blood supply .
Both h - MVD and VEGF immunoreactivity were statistically associated with lymph node metastasis ( P = . 012 and . 037 , respectively ) .
Thus , nuclear targeting of a specific 45 - kDa isoform of clusterin appeared to be an early and specific molecular signal triggering anoikis - death .
The present study provides direct evidence on the role of cell morphology in EC migration , and will help us to understand the mechanisms of EC migration during angiogenesis and wound healing .
Our results indicate that the nuclear phosphatase activity is inhibited by greater than 50 % in Galpha ( 12 ) QL cells compared to vector control cells .
METHODS : Gene silencing and over - expression techniques were used to modulate RASSF1C expression in human breast cancer cells .
p18Ink4c , but not p27Kip1 , collaborates with Men1 to suppress neuroendocrine organ tumors .
Evaluation of VEGF expression level with the same tissues was used to establish the antigenic profiles , and the marker of CD34 staining was used as an indicator of microvessel density ( MVD ) .
Effects of cyclooxygenase - 2 non - selective and selective inhibitors on proliferation inhibition and apoptosis induction of esophageal squamous carcinoma cells .
Angiogenic factors , in particular vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and the angiopoietins , Ang - 1 and - 2 , have recently generated significant interest , especially in oncology .
The reduction in collagenolytic activity was observed in viable cells as well as in conditioned medium .
However , how the tumor suppressive functions of p53 become concerted with the extracellular cues arriving at the cell surface during tissue homeostasis , remains largely unknown .
These results suggest that Ve and OMP may be crucial heat - labile and protease - sensitive components of periodontal pathogens that enhance VEGF expression .
In all patients , a major and consistent induction of p53 target genes was seen .
However , this modular protein core also binds with relatively high affinity to a number of growth factors and surface receptors , thereby stabilizing cell - matrix links .
There was , furthermore , no correlation between the heterogeneity of nm23 - H1 gene product expression and the patients survival .
RESULTS : The diagnostic sensitivity of this new immunocytochemical approach reached 100 % for the eight malignant mesotheliomas investigated .
Kaplan - Meier survival curves showed a statistically significant worse prognosis for patients with high vascular grade , but no difference was observed between low and medium vascular grade .
Levels of FGFR1 , but not FGFR2 , were increased in embryonic aorta cultured under 5 % O ( 2 ) relative to room air .
Electrical stimulation ( ES ) has been recommended as a adjunctive therapy , however optimal treatment paradigms have not been established .
In addition , TEL inhibited the invasiveness of Ras - transformed cells in vitro and in vivo .
Very low - dose irradiation ( 2 x 2 Gy ) is a new , effective , and safe local treatment for follicular lymphoma .
METHODS : MSCs from Sprague - Dawley ( SD ) rats were isolated and cultured in vitro .
RESULTS : As regards the association of patients ' prognosis with EGFR staining and Ki - 67 index , a significant increase was observed in patients who died or had residual disease compared with patients who were alive without disease .
MPs also play a role in tumor angiogenesis .
Here we have demonstrated that mechanical strain - dependent induction of the CCN1 gene involves signaling cascades through RhoA - mediated actin remodeling and the p38 stress - activated protein kinase ( SAPK ) .
These sinusoids had a great deal of surface area for potential contact with the fetal component .
Here , we review the role of the Hedgehog pathway in the signature characteristics of cancer cells that determine tumor development , progression , and metastasis .
Interestingly , cells transformed by FLT3 and BCR / ABL mutations that confer resistance to small - molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors were still sensitive to knockdown of PIM - 2 , or PIM - 1 and PIM - 2 by RNAi .
Mutations in the genes encoding the three other succinate dehydrogenase subunits ( SDHB , SDHC and SDHD ) have been identified in patients affected by familial or ' apparently sporadic ' paraganglioma and / or pheochromocytoma , an autosomal inherited cancer - susceptibility syndrome .
The animals in groups 3 and 4 also received L - NIL and saline respectively without surgical procedure .
Metastatic NIH 3T3 x LTA cell hybrids express 72 kDa type IV collagenase .
We hypothesized that signaling through multiple mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) kinase ( MKK ) pathways is essential for the growth and vascularization of soft - tissue sarcomas , which are malignant tumors derived from mesenchymal tissues .
CONCLUSION : These results suggest that 16 Gy of conventionally fractionated external beam irradiation slows down the visual loss in exudative AMD for only a few months .
Our results suggest that TEL acts as a tumor suppressor , in part , by transcriptional repression of stromelysin - 1 .
The physiological significance of these observations are discussed .
BACKGROUND : M - CSF recruits mononuclear phagocytes which regulate processes such as angiogenesis and metastases in tumors .
This review will summarize the current position of CECs , EPCs and EMPs in cell biology terms , with particular emphasis on their relationship to malignant disease .
In addition , the double staining was also used to determine VEGF - C expression in TAMs .
The interval between primary surgery and the appearance of gastric cancer in the remnant stomach was significantly shorter in the RSCM group than in the RSCB group .
While the study of angiogenesis as a phenomenon is still in an early phase , it has become possible , by using a combination of in vitro and in vivo techniques , to more thoroughly understand the initiation and control of capillary growth .
The higher mortality rate in the folate - deficient group compared with the other two groups ( 25 % versus 6 . 5 % and 5 . 6 % , P < 0 . 02 ) partially accounted for the low incidence of high - grade lesions in this group .
Notch receptors and ligands ( Jagged and Delta - like ) play a critical role in this process in addition to VEGF .
METHODS : The effect of insulin on VEGF expression in vivo was examined by in situ hybridization studies of rat retinal VEGF transcripts .
Identification of a small region of the v - fos gene product that is sufficient for transforming potential and growth - stimulating activity .
A receptor for angiostatin was identified on the surface of endothelial cells as F ( 1 ) - F ( 0 ) ATP synthase ( Moser et al . , 1999 ) .
Tip30 ( - / - ) mammary glands transplanted into wild - type mammary fat pads also display mammary trees with extensive ductal hyperplasia .
Mechanical regulation of the proangiogenic factor CCN1 / CYR61 gene requires the combined activities of MRTF - A and CREB - binding protein histone acetyltransferase .
These data highlight sanguinarine as a novel potential agent for bone cancer therapy .
Vascularization of subcutaneous Matrigel implants as well as tumor angiogenesis were both inhibited in PECAM - 1 - null mice .
The metastasis group showed significantly higher alpha - SMA expression compared with the no metastasis group ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
Clinical data on bevacizumab is discussed in detail .
Platelet - derived growth factor ( PDGF ) and its receptors ( PDGFR ) play important roles in tumorigenesis through stimulating tumor growth and promoting angiogenesis via enhancing pericyte recruitment and vessel maturation .
Notably , a similar vascular phenotype was induced by morpholino - mediated knockdown of the integrin alpha2 subunit .
The frequent expression of cytolytic effector markers in the CD2 + surface CD3 - CD56 + putative NK - cell lymphomas lends further support to their probable NK cell origin .
TIMP3 may affect two independent downstream targets , vascular endothelial growth factor receptor and p38 MAPK .
Interleukin - 6 has been shown to be associated with tumor progression including inhibition of cancer cells apoptosis and stimulation of angiogenesis .
The effect of angiopoietin 1 depends on the tumour model .
Immunostaining for endothelial nitric oxide synthase , vascular endothelial growth factor , and CD34 ( markers of vasoactivity and neoangiogenesis ) was also performed .
In addition , although VEGF receptors were higher in tumors than normal kidney , there was a significant up - regulation of only flt - 1 ( P = 0 . 003 ) but not KDR ( P = 0 . 12 ) or flt - 4 ( P = 0 . 09 ) .
Paradoxically , OSM can also suppress the growth of normal cells and certain tumor - derived cell lines .
It is concluded that there is no major difference between the PET investigation of glucose metabolism and the less expensive SPET measurement of amino acid uptake in terms of their accuracy in evaluating the malignancy grade of primary brain tumours .
Interleukin - 2 administration was followed by a significant increase in total lymphocytes , CD4 + , CD8 + , CD16 + 56 + ( NK ) cells , IL - 6 , IL - 12 , and CRP ( from P < 0 . 04 to P < 0 . 000 ) but no change in IL - 10 and TGFbeta1 during clinical benefit .
Inhibition of PG synthesis was without effect upon desensitization , demonstrating that the effect was not agonist - induced .
However , fetal utilization of oxygen and glucose , on a weight basis , remain constant compared with control pregnancies .
The low apoptosis phenotype is dominant in Runx2 / MYC tumors , indicating that Runx2 confers a potent survival advantage to MYC - expressing tumor cells .
Here , we show that deleting the Tip30 gene leads to ductal hyperplasia in mouse mammary glands early in life and extensive mammary hyperplasia with age .
In vitro wound migration and single - cell motility by PECAM - 1 - null endothelial cells were also compromised .
RESULTS : The bone grafts were found revascularization in 3 days after surgery in the test group , whereas at 2 weeks in the control group .
The transmembrane peptidase prostate - specific membrane antigen ( PSMA ) is universally upregulated in the vasculature of solid tumors , but its functional role in tumor angiogenesis has not been investigated .
In vitro and in vivo studies with losartan , small interfering RNA specific for calcineurin and FK506 demonstrated that Ang II - mediated sFlt - 1 release was via Ang II type 1 receptor activation and calcineurin signaling , respectively .
MCTs that were abundant or specific to glioma then were targeted in the model U - 87 MG glioma cell line via small interfering ribonucleic acid - mediated gene silencing and tested for inhibition of lactate efflux , intracellular pH changes , reduced proliferation , and / or induction of cell death .
BACKGROUND : CDC4 / FBXW7 , encoding a ubiquitin ligase , maps to 4q32 and has been implicated as a tumor suppressor gene and therapeutic target in many tumor types .
They defined also the predominant origin of new vessels from venules and capillaries , and enabled the evolution of proliferating vessels into arterioles and venules to be documented .
The average IMVD had statistical difference in histological grading ( P less than 0 . 01 ) , and analysis by one to one , the average IMVD had statistical difference between high and median grading .
Among them , 29 were gradually up - regulated whereas 17 were down - regulated with increasing metastatic potential .
The cells invasion was demonstrated by transwell assay .
Interestingly , neovascularization of the implants irradiated with 10 fractions ( 3000 cGy ) was not significantly decreased compared with irradiation with three fractions ( 900 cGy ) .
Ba / F3 cells transformed to growth factor independence by various oncogenic PTKs ( TEL / JAK2 , TEL / TRKC , TEL / ABL , BCR / ABL , FLT3 - ITD , and H4 / PDGFbetaR ) show abundant expression of PIM - 1 and PIM - 2 .
The sensitivity and specificity of s - VEGF at the cut - off level of 100 pg / ml , as determined by the receiver - operating - characteristics curve , were 80 . 0 % and 72 . 5 % , respectively .
This result supports the alleged contribution of overexpressed receptor tyrosine kinases to cell transformation .
Caffeine inhibits adenosine - induced accumulation of hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha , vascular endothelial growth factor , and interleukin - 8 expression in hypoxic human colon cancer cells .
When genetic ablation of 1 or 2 alleles of fur and overexpression of the PLAG1 transgene were simultaneously achieved , a significant delay in tumorigenesis was observed .
These results suggest a novel treatment for RDEB , namely , angiogenesis inhibitors , which may antagonize the effects of bFGF in this disorder .
BACKGROUND : Angiogenesis plays an important role in maintaining adequate oxygen delivery , and nitric oxide ( NO ) is a potential regulator of angiogenesis .
Utilizing antibody raised against the purified human erythrocyte glucose transporter , we have identified the glucose transporter as a membrane glycoprotein with a monomer Mr of approximately 41 , 000 .
This difference in invasiveness was not caused by differences in gelatinase production , which was constant within each group of transfectants .
Rat embryonic lung explant studies further validated the importance of the IGF - IGF - IR system for lung vascular development .
Our purpose was to examine human colon cancers for inactivation of two candidate metastasis suppressor genes , nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 , either by mutation or by loss of gene transcription .
FOXO3a elicits a pro - apoptotic transcription program and cellular response to human lung carcinogen nicotine - derived nitrosaminoketone ( NNK ) .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : We analyzed antigenicity , hydrophilicity , and charge distribution of the angioinhibitory epitope ( the 34 - mer ) and designed three peptides covering its COOH terminus , P14 , P18 , and P23 .
Intriguingly , two recent papers have shed new light into this unexplored field , indicating that p53 plays a key role in TGF - beta - induced growth arrest and , unexpectedly , in the developmental effects of TGF - beta in early embryos .
Sorafenib treatment led to accumulation of autophagosomes as evidenced by conversion from LC3 - I to LC3 - II observed by immunoblot in Huh7 , HLF and PLC / PRF / 5 cells .
Anti - endosialin antibodies may have value in identifying vasculature in malignant tissues .
Our data suggest that plasmin - nicked beta2GPI promotes angiogenesis by interacting with plasmin - generated AS4 . 5 in sites of increased fibrinolysis such as thrombus .
We will also discuss several patents regarding inhibitors of VEGF action in the present review .
Glutamine consumption in the presence of glucose was higher than with glutamine alone .
Fas ( APO - 1 / CD95 ) is a type I membrane protein that is capable of initiating an apoptosis signaling pathway when bound to its ligand ( FasL ) .
BACKGROUND : Abdominal surgery can lead to intra - abdominal adhesions with significant morbidity and mortality .
Together these results indicate that expression of junB above a threshold level is essential for v - fos - induced transformation of Rat - 1 fibroblasts .
METHODS : Using human colon adenocarcinoma tissues ( hereinafter referred to as colon cancer ) and their corresponding non - diseased colon from 114 patients ' biopsies , the expression of SPARC and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) were investigated by immunohistochemistry staining to assessment the relationship between SPARC and VEGF , as well as their prognostic significance in patients .
To identify the underlying mechanism involved in such growth - factor / serum independent growth of Galpha ( 12 ) QL - transformed NIH3T3 , we carried out a two - dimensional differential proteome analysis of Galpha ( 12 ) QL - transformed NIH3T3 cells and cells expressing vector control .
We utilized two autologous human melanoma cell lines , IV Cl 1 and IV Cl 3 , which displayed qualitatively different metastatic phenotypes following subdermal inoculation into nude mice .
Arterial gene transfer of naked DNA encoding for a secreted angiogenic cytokine , thus , represents a potential alternative to recombinant protein administration for stimulating collateral vessel development .
BACKGROUND & # 38 ; OBJECTIVE : Previous study shows that both vascular endothelial growth - C ( VEGF - C ) and tumor - associated macrophages ( TAMs ) are related to lymphatic metastasis .
It was suggested that UFT has a stronger angiogenesis - inhibitory effect than did other fluorinated pyrimidines , partly due to its pharmacokinetic properties characterized by maintaining of higher and long - lasting blood levels of 5 - FU and partly due the inhibitory effects derived from gamma - hydroxybutyric acid and gamma - butyrolactone , UFT - specific metabolites .
Pak1 - DLC1 interaction plays an essential role in cell survival , which depends on Pak1 ' s phosphorylation of DLC1 on Ser88 .
Upon initiation of angiogenesis with basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) on the chick chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) , endothelial cell mitogen - activated protein ( MAP ) kinase ( ERK ) activity was detected as early as 5 min yet was sustained for at least 20 h .
These data provide a morphologic ( angiogenesis and increased endothelial area ) and molecular ( enhanced NOS activity and endothelial NOS upregulation ) basis for explaining the permeability changes observed in long - term PD .
Overexpression of SEMA3B and SEMA3F reduced focal adhesion kinase phosphorylation and matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and matrix metalloproteinase - 9 expression in ovarian cancer cells .
It has been recognized as the cause of adult T - cell leukemia ( ATL ) .
Staining was effected by the standard avidin - biotin horseradish peroxidase system .
Clinical significance of chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter - transcription factor II expression in human colorectal cancer .
These disturbed functions are associated with suppression of signaling mechanisms implicated in EC survival and angiogenesis .
Treatment with the combination of 1B3 and DC101 in BxPC - 3 xenograft - bearing mice resulted in tumor regression in 58 % of mice compared to that in 18 % of mice treated with DC101 alone .
CONCLUSIONS : Irreversible PHT is strongly associated with impaired endothelial cell apoptosis and antiapoptotic signaling from perivascular inflammatory cells .
Inhibition of angiogenesis by the cancer chemopreventive agent conjugated linoleic acid .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the relationship among angiogenesis , spontaneous apoptosis and clinicopathological parameters in laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma ( LSCC ) .
p53 has a central role in skin pigmentation and may impact on melanoma at all stages , however , as it ' s mutation frequency in melanoma is low , it ' s role has been somewhat under - appreciated .
The roles of miscrovascularity density ( MVD ) and VEGF expression in the progression of oral squamous cell carcinoma ( OSCC ) have been controversial .
The studies reported here were designed to help elucidate PAI - 1 ' s contribution to the invasive and migratory phenotype .
Akt knockdown and an mTOR inhibitor revealed the importance of the Akt / mTOR pathway in the postirradiation accumulation of HIF - 1alpha .
The effects of LMP1 on the invasion and migration of CNE1 cells were investigated by transwell methods .
However , DMI inhibited FA - induced , GR - mediated transcription when both agents were given together .
Although Evi - 1 is thought to promote growth or block differentiation in some cell types , its biological functions have not been elucidated .
The genetics of transformation by SV 40 .
Patients were followed up until bone metastases were established .
Another interesting cell type is the endothelial progenitor cell ( EPC ) , whose numbers increase in the presence of vascular damage .
It is hypothesized that the NO derived from inducible NOS ( iNOS ) may promote survival of ischemic tissue through angiogenesis .
The chromosomal translocation t ( 11 : 14 ) is associated with human lymphoid neoplasia affecting centrocytic B - cells of intermediate differentiation .
A marginally significant association was also noted between the h - MVD and patient survival ( P = . 056 ) .
Multivariate analysis revealed abnormal E - cadherin expression as an independent factor that correlated with submucosal invasion in early gastric cancer .
The increased expression of MMP - 9 was also shown in CNE1 - GL cells by Western blot analysis .
BACKGROUND : Angiogenesis is essential for tumor growth and relies on the production of angiogenic factors .
The findings suggest that elevated serum levels of S - 100beta , IL - 6 and IL - 10 reflect concurrent liver or bone metastases in melanoma .
A portion of bilateral radial bones of a rabbit were removed as free bone grafts , whose periostea were peeled off .
Strikingly , Tip30 deletion promotes proliferation of primary MECs and results in rapid immortalization of MECs in vitro relative to wild - type cells .
These are exciting new functions of vitamins that nobody could have predicted only a few years ago .
Using c - FLIP anti - sense oligonucleotides to down - regulate c - FLIP we sensitized DU145 cells to CH - 11 - induced apoptosis .
Conditioned medium from progestin - treated breast cancer cells stimulates endothelial cell proliferation in the absence though not in the presence of antibody to TSP - 1 , indicating that TSP - 1 secreted by breast cancer cells could be pro - angiogenic .
It is concluded that the observed increase in the Na + / K + ratio in ascites tumor cells is connected with their enhanced ability to synthesize lactic acid .
Liposomal honokiol inhibits VEGF - D - induced lymphangiogenesis and metastasis in xenograft tumor model .
Cancer cells are different from normal cells in their metabolic properties .
Patients have been treated between January 1996 and October 1997 .
Indeed , in the reported cases it was possible to vacuum dry and reconstitute the proteins without any aggregation or loss in protein and biological activity .
Furthermore , gonadotropin - and / or estrogen - mediated maintenance of SEMA3 expression could control ovarian cancer angiogenesis and metastasis .
RESULTS : Survivin expression was noted in 30 ( 81 % ) of breast carcinomas , and in normal breast tissue , in nuclei , and cytoplasm .
Furthermore , it was showed that GSH depletion induced by MOG rendered some leukemia cell lines more sensitive to arsenic trioxide ( As2O3 ) , doxorubicin or cisplatin .
Macrophages can be activated in a classical or alternative manner in parallel with the T ( H ) 1 / T ( H ) 2 dichotomy , respectively .
Two weeks after injection , there was histological evidence of neovascularization in the tissues surrounding the Matrigel containing AdCMV . VEGF165 , whereas no significant angiogenesis was observed in response to AdCMV . beta gal .
We failed to find the statistical difference between IMVD and tumor T - stage in LSCC .
The merits of vascular targeting for gynecologic malignancies .
While the understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of IBD has recently improved , the mechanisms that link these chronic inflammatory states to colorectal cancer development are in large part unknown .
After 21 days , the serum concentration of nitrite , capillary density and expression of HIF1alpha were determined .
In addition , magnolol activated phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 ( PTEN ) and inactivated Akt by decreasing levels of phosphorylated PTEN and phosphorylated Akt .
Although many studies have been carried out to investigate the chemopreventive role of flavonoids , less attention has been focused on phenolic acids .
Adjuvant chemotherapy is recommended after resection in selected high - risk patients with stage II disease and in all patients with stage III disease .
As a consequence the cyclin D1 ( bcl - 1 ) gene is juxtaposed to the immunoglobulin heavy chain enhancer E mu .
We have , therefore , examined components of this plasminogen activating system in patients with Non - Small Cell Lung Cancer ( NSCLC ) .
The synthesis and / or the excretion of this factor in a medium is controlled by the A gene .
They exhibited specific and high - affinity binding of somatostatin - 14 , somatostatin - 28 and octreotide , suggesting a preferential expression of the SSTR2 receptor subtype .
Numerous products from fruits , vegetable and traditional medicinal plants have been described which can suppress TNF expression and TNF signaling but their clinical potential is yet uncertain .
Primary human keratinocytes lacking G45 ( DeltaG45 ) showed alterations of basal receptor organization , impaired matrix deposition , and increased migration .
Acad .
The expression of VEGFs did not correlate with either lymphatic density or neck metastasis .
Higher platelet concentrations may expose beneficial effects of PRP .
The increase in tumorigenicity and metastatic ability could be explained by the increase in Mr 72 , 000 type IV collagenase activity and angiogenesis attributed to the induction of IL - 8 after irradiation .
Two microsatellite regions found altered in RER + colon cancers were analyzed to establish if these sequences were aberrant in CML .
[ An experimental study on angiogenesis of non - vascularized autogenous bone graft with vascular bundle implantation ]
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : To evaluate the antiangiogenic activity of EPOX , we did cell viability , cell cycle , tube formation assay in vitro , and Matrigel plug assay in vivo .
The short - term response of Swiss 3T3 cells to an activator of protein kinase C also appeared to be independent of growth state , since the 50 % effective dose for PDBu inhibition of EGF binding to its receptor was approximately 7 nM for both growth conditions .
Cells infected with this mutant display a 36 , 000 - dalton protein that is phosphorylated to a considerably lesser extent than cells infected with wild - type virus .
Analysis of promoter hypermethylation of the APC gene was also carried out using methylation - specific PCR ( MS - PCR ) .
Our data suggest that p - XSC inhibits multiple signaling pathways in prostate cancer , likely accounting for the downstream effects on proliferation and apoptosis .
None of the test drugs demonstrated significant anti - edema activity .
Regulation of the resident chromosomal copy of c - myc by c - Myb is involved in myeloid leukemogenesis .
To investigate the endothelial proliferation and the potential signaling pathways affected by PTEN methylation , proliferating cell nuclear antigen as well as phosphor - Akt and phosphor - Erk1 , 2 were detected by immunofluorescence and Western blot , respectively , in CCM specimens .
Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 staining was relatively sparse but was significantly increased until 8 weeks after surgery .
Here we report that the distal region of the hepatoma type II hexokinase promoter displays consensus motifs for hypoxia - inducible factor ( HIF - 1 ) that overlap E - box sequences known to be related in other gene promoters to glucose response .
AIMS : As one of the five lactate dehydrogenase ( LDH ) isoenzymes , LDH5 has the highest efficiency to catalyze pyruvate transformation to lactate .
The high - mobility group A2 gene ( HMGA2 ) is one of the most frequently amplified genes in human cancers .
Bmi - 1 transgenic mice were born with enlarged lateral ventricles and a minority developed idiopathic hydrocephalus as adults , but none of the transgenic mice formed detectable CNS tumors , even when aged .
Here we investigated this possibility by examining the role of FOXO3a in the cellular response to nicotine - derived nitrosaminoketone ( NNK ) , a lung carcinogen implicated as a cause of human LAC .
CONCLUSION : The protein profile of metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines displayed obvious differences compared with non - metastatic liver cancer cell lines .
Blocking Dex - induced MKP - 1 induction using small interfering RNA increased ERK1 / 2 and JNK phosphorylation and decreased cell survival .
There is a significant increase in the number of apoptotic hepatocytes when they are cultured in the conditioned media .
A summary is made of recent advances in the understanding of IL - 18 structure , processing , receptor expression and immunoregulatory functions .
In addition , it significantly extends the passage number of MEF cells to more than 30 after retroviral infection , compared with less than 5 for uninfected MEF cells .
The feasibility of such a strategy has now been established through the results of studies over the past decade , and a new discipline called therapeutic angiogenesis has emerged .
The neural stem cell fate determinant TLX plays a pivotal role in neurogenesis in the adult brain by maintaining neural stem cells .
Angiogenesis , a multi - step process which involves endothelial cell proliferation , adhesion , migration , and basement membrane ( BM ) degradation , is essential for tumor metastasis .
Furthermore , the Runx2 / MYC combination overcomes the requirement for genetic inactivation of the p53 pathway in vivo .
The mechanism underlying this VEGF - associated angiogenesis may be an increase in stretch due to enhanced diastolic filling .
Finally , genetic ablation of Brk1 results in dramatic defects in embryo compaction and development , suggesting an essential role for this protein in actin dynamics .
The role of Hes genes in intestinal development , homeostasis and tumor formation .
Upon investigation , intrachromosomal gene amplification of Met , a receptor tyrosine kinase implicated in melanoma progression , was identified in Cdkn2a - deficient tumors .
The microcirculation of most tumors includes cooperation of pre - existing vessels , intussusceptive microvascular growth , postnatal vasculogenesis , glomeruloid angiogenesis and vasculogenic mimicry ( VM ) .
This resulted in formation of tumors , which were pigmented and of epithelial origin .
In contrast , MCT 3 was the predominantly expressed isoform in normal brain .
Upon HTPB treatment , cell cycle arrest was induced and subsequently led to mitochondria - mediated apoptosis .
The acquisition of the metastatic phenotype induced by UV - B could not be attributed to abnormalities in the p53 or MTS - 1 ( p16INK4 ) genes .
These may be associated with plant based anti - inflammatory effects , The phytochemistry and pharmacological actions of all Punica granatum components suggest a wide range of clinical applications for the treatment and prevention of cancer , as well as other diseases where chronic inflammation is believed to play an essential etiologic role .
One such agent , 3 - bromopyruvate ( 3 - BrPA ) , a lactic acid analog , has been shown to inhibit both glycolytic and mitochondrial ATP production in rapidly growing cancers ( Ko et al . , Cancer Letts . , 173 , 83 - 91 , 2001 ) , leave normal cells alone , and eradicate advanced cancers ( 19 of 19 ) in a rodent model ( Ko et al . , Biochem . Biophys . Res . Commun . , 324 , 269 - 275 , 2004 ) .
Mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) activities were investigated to explore the mechanism of this induction .
Activated platelets enhance SKOV3 human ovarian cancer cell invasion through Matrigel and increase the amount of uPA and VEGF secreted into SKOV3 cell conditioned medium .
TGFbeta1 was initially identified in culture media from transformed cells as part of a factor that could produce a transformed phenotype in a nontransformed cell line .
The present findings may be of importance to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying the spread of cancer via the lymphatics and explore the therapeutical strategy of honokiol on antilymphangiogenesis and antimetastasis .
Anti - metastasis effects of gallic acid on gastric cancer cells involves inhibition of NF - kappaB activity and downregulation of PI3K / AKT / small GTPase signals .
Compared with BM - MSC , FM - MSC secreted a comparable amount of hepatocyte growth factor despite a small amount of vascular endothelial growth factor .
In vitro studies have shown that the mast cell seems to behave as a helper cell for capillary endothelial cells , in some way speeding up their rate of directional migration .
p - XSC effectively inhibits AR expression and transcriptional activity in both cell lines .
On the mechanism of glycolysis stimulation by neutral detergents in 3T3 and Ehrlich ascites tumor cells .
CONCLUSIONS : We found that insulin does not induce major changes in glucose uptake of lymphomatous tissue .
H4 cells formed tight , round spheroids whereas H5 cells formed loose , grape - like structures .
RESULTS : PLGA microspheres with an open - porous structure were formed .
We conclude that CD47 signaling can negatively affect the viability and function of cerebral endothelial cells , further supporting the notion that CD47 may be a potential neurovascular target for stroke and brain injury .
In an animal experiment , marrow cells were infiltrated into the walls of long - fibril expanded polytetrafluoroethylene ( ePTFE ) vascular grafts .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , fibroblast growth factor ( FGF ) , recombinant proteins and bone marrow stem cells are currently used therapeutic stimulators for angiogenesis .
Our in vivo metastasis mouse model is useful for studying the efficacy of therapeutic regimes of ovarian cancer .
There is evidence in experimental and clinical studies that adult bone marrow - derived stem cells and endothelial progenitor cells participate in the development of new blood vessels , called neoangiogenesis or neovascularization .
Endothelial cell migration was increased by Rab5a depletion but decreased by Rab7a depletion .
Pthrp ablation in the mammary epithelium of the PyMT - MMTV breast cancer mouse model caused a delay in primary tumor initiation , inhibited tumor progression , and reduced metastasis to distal sites .
Radiation retinopathy is treatable with anti - vascular endothelial growth factor bevacizumab ( Avastin ) .
Endothelial cell migration was attenuated by treatment of cells with GM6001 , a non - specific inhibitor of MMPs , or by a selective anti - MMP2 antibody .
The grafts were implanted in the abdominal aortic position of 24 dogs autologously .
RNA damage and inhibition of neoplastic endothelial cell growth : effects of human and amphibian ribonucleases .
A significant amount of type I HK RNA was also found expressed in cancer cell lines .
Thus , 20 - HETE may be involved in the regulation of EC functions , such as angiogenesis .
Sequence analysis revealed that this gene had 95 % homology with the LMP sequence of the B95 - 8 strain .
The 13C enrichment of cell metabolites was examined after a 4 - h incubation in media containing 5 . 5 mM glucose and 11 mM lactate , each metabolite being alternatively labelled with either [ 1 - 13C ] D - glucose or [ 3 - 13C ] L - lactate .
FVIIa - induced antiapoptotic effect was dependent on its proteolytic activity and TF but independent of factor Xa and thrombin .
Formation of apoptotic bodies was preceded by lowering of intracellular polyamines , particularly putrescine , and both dose - and time - dependent inhibitory and activation effect by ACA on ornithine decarboxylase ( ODC ) and spermidine / spermine N ( 1 ) - acetyltransferase ( SSAT ) , respectively .
We also show that mouse p10 is able to inhibit foci formation and anchorage - independent growth in wild - type mouse embryonic fibroblasts , and that these antitransforming properties of mouse p10 are also p53 - dependent .
The knockdown of robo4 abrogated the chemotactic response of endothelial cells to serum but enhanced a chemokinetic response to Slit2 , while robo1 knockdown cells do not display chemotactic response to serum or VEGF .
Because thrombin cleavage of OPN results in substantial enhancement of OPN ' s adhesive properties , and because VPF / VEGF promotes increased microvascular permeability leading to activation of the extrinsic coagulation pathway , we also investigated whether VPF / VEGF facilitates thrombin cleavage of OPN in vivo .
In order to appropriately move NF - kappaB inhibitors in the clinic , thorough approaches must be initiated to determine the molecular mechanisms that dictate the complexity of oncologic and therapeutic outcomes that are controlled by NF - kappaB .
In accord with our hypothesis , in a variety of different FH - deficient tissues , including a novel murine model of Fh1 - deficient smooth muscle , we show a striking and progressive upregulation of a tumorigenic metabolic profile , as manifested by increased PKM2 and LDHA protein .
PTTG activated E - box transcription and induced c - Myc protein expression in EC9706 cells , which in turn may act on an E - box motif within the galectin - 1 promoter .
The caprine placenta is usually considered to have increased interhemal distance compared with endotheliochorial and hemochorial types : our results suggest that the very extensive development of sinusoids and crypts may compensate for any negative consequences of the placental architecture .
The different tumorigenic potential of SV40 in WAP - T and WAP - mutCK1delta / WAP - T tumors was also reflected by a significantly different expression of various genes known to be involved in tumor progression , specifically of those involved in wnt - signaling and DNA repair .
Outcomes measures included transcutaneous blood gas levels , histology , total RNA content and analysis of alpha2 ( I ) collagen ( COL - I ) , type IV collagen ( COL - IV ) , alpha1 ( V ) collagen ( COL - V ) , and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression using real - time quantitative PCR .
The ectodomains and heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycan chains of syndecans can also act as receptors / co - receptors for some bacterial and viral pathogens , mediating infection .
In this study , we hypothesized that ICAM - 3 has an additional effect on cancer cell migration and invasion because molecules induced by ICAM - 3 are known as regulators of cell migration and invasion .
Prior to the appearances of frank neoplasms , volumetric changes in DMBA only and radiation only groups were similar , while volume changes in DMBA + radiation groups increased slowly to a peak later than in other groups and then declined steadily to levels similar to the radiation only group .
Apoptosis is detected with the TUNEL method .
A cohort of unspecified mesodermal cells differentiates into primitive endothelial cells , which migrate to and occupy positions within the stereotypical blueprint of the primitive vasculature .
High - mobility group A2 protein modulates hTERT transcription to promote tumorigenesis .
We screened 200 RTK target - based compounds and identified one ( TKI - 31 ) that potently inhibited VEGFR - 2 kinase activity ( IC50 = 0 . 596 microM ) .
A low - Km , mitochondrial type II - like tumor HK is described as the predominant form in hepatomas .
Melissoidesin G , a diterpenoid purified from Isodon melissoides , induces leukemic - cell apoptosis through induction of redox imbalance and exhibits synergy with other anticancer agents .
The interaction of neoplastic cells with the extracellular matrix is a critical event for the initiation of cancer invasion and metastasis .
We conducted a retrospective medical record review of patients treated with rofecoxib for acute haemarthrosis , chronic synovitis , target joint or pain .
These results may have chemotherapeutic implications for using emodin to target HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing cancer cells .
Interleukin - 8 ( IL - 8 ) is known to be a pro - inflammatory and pro - angiogenic cytokine , and IL - 8 has been reported to be associated with tumor progression , prognosis and survival in several types of cancers .
One example of particular interest is the Keap1 - Nrf2 system since , according to recent studies , it has turned out to be ambivalent .
The indication for surgery was established on the basis of pathologic calcitonin levels in the first seven patients and on the basis of detected RET proto - oncogene mutation in the other eight patients .
However , we show here that VEGF , specifically through VEGFR2 , induces phosphorylation of two serine residues on PLCbeta3 , and this was confirmed in an ex vivo embryoid body model .
Tip30 is a tumor suppressor that can inhibit estrogen receptor - mediated transcription in MECs , but its role in MEC proliferation remains unknown .
Inhibition of MAP kinase kinase ( MEK ) during this sustained alphavbeta3 - dependent ERK signal blocked the formation of new blood vessels while not influencing preexisting blood vessels on the CAM .
OBJECT : Endothelial proliferation has been recognized as a marker of high - grade or aggressive glioma .
Additional mechanistic studies further suggested that the ability of circulating cancer cells to extravasate to surrounding lung tissues was linked to the activation of the vascular endothelium via one or more Galpha ( i ) - coupled receptors .
This work does not confirm reports that NSAID ' s have anti - edema activity and suggests that there may be no correlation between ' angiostatic ' and anti - edema activity in certain steroid compounds .
Expression of CDK4 or CDK2 in mouse oral cavity is retained in adult pituitary with distinct effects on tumorigenesis .
The study presented here examined the ability of specific regions and activities of T antigen to modulate apoptosis in cells treated with the genotoxic agent 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) .
We show that ING4 physically interacts with p65 ( RelA ) subunit of nuclear factor NF - kappaB , and that ING4 regulates brain tumour angiogenesis through transcriptional repression of NF - kappaB - responsive genes .
Expression of both receptors was studied in biopsy samples from 92 patients ( 6 males and 86 females ; age ranging from 28 to 86 years , mean 56 years ) .
Furthermore , p53 overexpression by tumors was almost twice as common in the RSCM group as in the RSCB group .
An additional anti - tumour effect was demonstrated when L - NAME was added to the synergistic combination of melphalan and TNF ( responses increased from 70 to 100 % ) .
In this study , to examine hypoxia - specific production of anti - angiogenic therapeutic gene , we constructed 5 copies of HRE ( 5xHRE ) of human VEGF linked to soluble Tie2 ( sTie2 ) driven by minimal SV40 promoter ( 5xHRE / SV40 / sTie2 ) .
Activation of Ca2 + entry is known to produce endothelial cell shape change , leading to increased permeability , leukocyte migration , and initiation of angiogenesis in conduit - vessel endothelial cells .
PTHrP is also associated with the progression of skeletal metastases , and its dysregulated expression in advanced cancers causes malignancy - associated hypercalcemia .
There is considerable debate concerning where in the cell Notch functions and what proteins serve as effectors of the Notch signal .
A reduction in the expression of collagen XII might have profound effects on the stability of the extracellular matrix of transformed cells .
Therefore , genetic instability plays an important role in inflammation - associated cancers .
In wild - type VHL cells , whereas VEGF - A was significantly up - regulated under hypoxic compared with normoxic conditions ( P less than 0 . 001 ) , expression of VEGF - C was reduced ( P less than 0 . 002 ) .
Highly metastatic GSAS / N3 and N5 cells showed an enhanced NF - kappaB activity , thus contributing to increased migration , invasion , and a poor prognosis compared with the parent cells .
This resulted in a substantial increase in P185neu expression , which led to the formation of progressively growing carcinomas after such cells were inoculated into athymic nude mice .
The role of the p53 pathway in Runx2 / MYC tumors was explored on a p53 heterozygote background .
The members of an Epstein - Barr virus microRNA cluster cooperate to transform B lymphocytes .
Female double Smad1 Smad5 and triple Smad1 Smad5 Smad8 conditional knockout mice become infertile and develop metastatic granulosa cell tumors .
They also induced local angiogenesis in vivo in an animal model .
Finally , in vivo , in a xenograft model of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma using UM - SCC - 11A cells , 2ME2 exhibited antitumor and antiangiogenic activity , as measured by CD31 immunostaining .
Depending on the cell type , expression of ANGPT1 and ANGPT2 was either activated or repressed in response to hypoxia or AdCA5 .
Elevated levels of diacylglycerol and decreased phorbol ester sensitivity in ras - transformed fibroblasts .
By specifically and potently inhibiting tumor Hsp90 , PU24FCl exhibits wide - ranging anti - cancer activities that occur at similar doses in all tested tumor types .
In patients with pancreatic carcinoma , the levels of fibrinogen in the group with jaundice were significantly higher than in patients without jaundice ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Levels of expression of CYR61 and CTGF are prognostic for tumor progression and survival of individuals with gliomas .
However , monolayer cultures differ greatly from the complex environmental conditions generated in solid tumors that develop inhomogeneous hypoxic and necrotic regions .
Parathyroid hormone - related protein ( PTHrP ) is a secreted factor expressed in almost all normal fetal and adult tissues .
The rapid cleavage of Tie1 is followed by a transcriptional down - regulation in response to shear stress .
In our study , MOG was shown to specifically inhibit the growth of human leukemia cell lines and primary acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) blasts via induction of apoptosis , with the evidence of mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss , reactive oxygen species production , caspases activation and nuclear fragmentation .
Brk1 is required for cell proliferation and cell transformation by oncogenes .
In addition , expression of c - MYC from a constitutive promoter also abrogated the STAT3 - mediated arrest , and strikingly , cooperated with OSM to promote anchorage - independent growth ( AIG ) , a property associated with malignant transformation .
This ultimately deprives VEGF receptors of an essential molecule required for promoting the disruption of endothelial cell - cell contacts and paracellular permeability .
Inhibition studies showed that adhesion of fibroblasts was mediated by several beta1 integrin receptors independent of the RGD and ECD recognition motif .
The incidence of high - grade lesions ( high - grade dysplasia / carcinoma in situ and invasive adenocarcinoma ) in the folate - supplemented group was 46 % lower than that in the control group ( 35 . 3 % versus 65 . 1 % , P = 0 . 009 ) .
Metastasis - associated 5T4 antigen disrupts cell - cell contacts and induces cellular motility in epithelial cells .
Vessel density ( MVD - microvessel density ) , endothelial cell proliferation fraction ( ECP % ) and tumour cell proliferation fraction ( TCP % ) were assessed .
Proto - oncogene N - myc promoter is down regulated by the Wilms ' tumor suppressor gene WT1 .
The antisense oligomers complementary to the ER suppressed proliferation and transformed phenotypes of K12V cells .
CONCLUSION : The present series supports the theory that opticin is produced by the non - pigmented CBE throughout adult life .
Bcl - 2 protected SH - EP cells from death during nutritional deprivation by activating energetically advantageous oxidative phosphorylation .
Role of thrombogenic factors in the development of atherosclerosis .
A significantly reduced expression of SEMA3B ( 83 kDa ) , SEMA3F ( 90 kDa ) , and plexin - A3 was observed in ovarian cancer cell lines when compared with normal human ovarian surface epithelial cells .
p75 mediated apoptosis in neuroblastoma cells is inhibited by expression of TrkA .
So we established that these pathways were crucial to endothelial cell proliferation under vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and fibroblast growth factor ( FGF ) stimulation .
Wnt signaling , stem cells , and the cellular origin of breast cancer .
RESULTS : IL - 12 - expressing RM - 9 prostate carcinoma cells transplanted into C57BL / J6 mice grew more slowly than control RM - 9 cells and vector control RM - 9 - Luc cells .
Thalidomide in concentrations from 0 . 1 microM to 10 microM did not change cell proliferation of 72 - h cell cultures .
Using a murine incisional wound healing model this study was carried out to investigate the roles of estrogen and progesterone on macrophage activation during the wound healing response .
Angiogenesis - - one of the hallmarks of cancer - - has emerged as a valid therapeutic target in oncology .
In this study , we sought to investigate in more detail the role of caspase - 3 in apoptotic processes in cultured cells and in cell - free extracts of breast cancer cells .
Recent reports suggest that elevated levels of plasminogen activator inhibitor - 1 ( PAI - 1 ) may contribute to tumour progression .
Alpha - melanocyte - stimulating hormone ( alpha - MSH ) has evolved as a mediator of diverse biological activities in an ever - growing number of non - melanocytic cell types .
Down - regulation of Mcl - 1 resulted in an increase in Mcl - 1 - free Bim , activation of Bax , and then signaling of mitochondria - mediated apoptosis .
VEGF - A ( 165 ) , B , C , Flt - 1 , and KDR were analyzed .
This study validates a role for Met activation in melanoma tumor progression in the context of Cdkn2a deficiency .
Natl .
Intracellular glutathione levels were determined with the use of monochlorobimane , a glutathione - specific probe .
No significant differences between the two groups were observed in tumor size , gender , age , histology , differentiation or preoperative therapy .
NIH3T3 transfectant containing human K - ras oncogene shows enhanced metastatic activity after in vivo tumor growth or co - culture with fibroblasts .
The main purpose of the present investigation was to study the effect of a homologous series of 1 - alkylpyrrolidine N - oxides on ATP - producing processes in Ehrlich ascites and L1210 murine leukemia cells .
This low glucose utilization is in contrast to the high [ 11C ] methionine uptake and the malignancy of these tumors .
This may reflect a transition in blood concentration of each metabolite resulting from the administration of UFT .
Investigating the causes of low birth weight in contrasting ovine paradigms .
The rabbits were sacrificed and the specimens were procured at 3 days , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 and 6 weeks after surgery for histological observation , Chinese ink perfusion and CD34 immunohistochemistry .
Expression of nm23 - H1 gene product in metastatic lymph nodes was also unrelated to patients survival .
Optimizing treatment of choroidal neovascularization feeder vessels associated with age - related macular degeneration .
The subsequent identification of germline mutations in the gene encoding fumarase - - another TCA cycle enzyme - - in a new hereditary form of susceptibility to renal , uterine and cutaneous tumors has highlighted the potential role of the TCA cycle and , more generally , of the mitochondria in cancer .
The expression of NP - 1 , NP - 2 , and plexin - A1 was not altered in human ovarian surface epithelial and ovarian cancer cells .
N - methyl - N - nitrosourea - induced transformation of rat urothelial cells in vitro is not mediated by activation of ras oncogenes .
The objective of this study is to investigate the effects of aspirin and nimesulide on cell proliferation , apoptosis and its potential mechanisms in EC9706 and EC109 esophageal squamous carcinoma cells .
Many of the circulatory and transport properties of the sheep placenta are similar to those of the human placenta and as such , the pregnant sheep offers an excellent model in which to study the development of IUGR .
Murine leukemia L1210 cells rendered deficient in glutathione peroxidase ( GPX ) and phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase ( PHGPX ) by Se deprivation ( L . Se ( - ) cells ) were found to be more sensitive to tert - butyl hydroperoxide ( t - BuOOH ) cytotoxicity than Se - replete controls ( L . Se ( + ) cells ) .
These results indicate that specific HDAc inhibitors may be useful in the treatment of Evi - 1 - induced neoplastic tumors , including myeloid leukemias .
When injected in human breast cancer xenografts , pAd - T34A inhibited growth of established tumors and triggered tumor cell apoptosis in vivo .
Therapeutic Electromagnetic Field ( TEMF ) and gamma irradiation on human breast cancer xenograft growth , angiogenesis and metastasis .
An exception is the adaptive immune system where lymphocytes utilize programmed DNA damage to effect antigen receptor diversification .
Rhizochalin is a two - headed sphingolipid - like compound isolated from the sponge Rhizochalina incrustata .
The biologic relevance of increased NOS in long - term PD was demonstrated by enhanced nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity and a significant increase in vascular density and endothelial area in the peritoneum .
MMP2 and MMP9 activity were determined by zymographic assay , and MAPK activation by Western blotting analysis .
VEGF mRNA expression was also observed in Ve - and OMP - stimulated HGF .
Fas and FasL proteins were increased approximately twofold in the RM - 9 - IL12 tumors compared with the RM - 9 control tumors as determined by Western blot and immunohistochemical analyses ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
The interaction of virally derived and endogenous cellular proteins converges in deregulation of cell cycle progression and appears to be critical for the development of cervical cancers .
RESULTS : U - 995 ( 15 and 30 micrograms / ml ) markedly inhibited HUVEC migration and , at 15 - 50 micrograms / ml produced a dose - dependent decline in [ 3H ] - thymidine incorporation .
When tumor cells possessed a high level of UK , laminin and type IV collagen , components of the basement membrane , disappeared from tumor tissues .
Three patients discontinued therapy .
RNA and DNA viruses can be transforming and tumourigenic agents .
The quaternary benzo [ c ] phenanthridine alkaloid sanguinarine inhibits the proliferation of cancerous cells from different origins , including lung , breast , pancreatic and colon , but nothing is known of its effects on osteosarcoma , a primary malignant bone tumour .
After IL - 1Ra treatment of GK rats in vivo , most selected genes implied in endothelium / OS / immune cells / fibrosis were significantly down - regulated .
N - myc is coexpressed with WT1 in the developing kidney and is overexpressed in many Wilms ' tumors .
Serum IL - 6 levels correlate with tumor stage , and survival of patients .
In the present study a DNA probe derived from cellular DNA sequences adjacent to the previously characterized HBV insert was used to analyze a set of 19 matched normal liver and HBV - positive hepatoma samples obtained from the same region of China , near Shanghai .
The decreased expression of SEMA3B , SEMA3F , and plexin - A3 was confirmed in stage 3 ovarian tumors .
Histological venous invasion ( p less than 0 . 01 ) and distant metastasis ( p less than 0 . 05 ) were significantly correlated with p53 protein expression .
The EGFR - GEP100 - Arf6 - AMAP1 signaling pathway specific to breast cancer invasion and metastasis .
TS - 1 is a new , oral anticancer agent composed of two modulators , gimeracil ( CDHP ) and oteracil potassium ( Oxo ) are mixed with tegafur in a ratio of 1 : 0 . 4 : 1 .
CONCLUSIONS : Enoxaparine Na decreased intra - abdominal adhesions , and HBO therapy had no beneficial effect on adhesions .
We hypothesized that 1 ) MCT expression in malignant tumors may differ from normal tissue in quantity , isoform , or both ; and 2 ) silencing MCT expression would induce intracellular acidification , resulting in decreased proliferation and / or increased cell death .
Furthermore , the expression of M2 - PK - binding peptide aptamers moderately reduced the growth of immortalized NIH3T3 cell populations by decelerating cell proliferation , but without affecting apoptotic cell death .
The tumor mass thus formed was an average 5 . 8 - fold as large as control A431 tumors that were grown without F - 2 cells .
These results show a remarkable selectivity of expression and function for laminin - 332 G45 in human SCC tumorigenesis and implicate it as a specific target for anticancer therapy .
Diabetes impairs endothelial function and reparative neovascularization .
Enoxaparine Na had no harmful effects on wound healing , and HBO therapy increased the process of wound healing .
High - risk human papillomaviruses ( HPVs ) are associated with carcinomas of the cervix and other genital tumors .
Furthermore , interaction of fibroblasts and high invasive melanoma cells with soluble recombinant DC - 9 resulted in enhanced expression of MMP - 1 and MMP - 2 .
Restored DCC expression in the cancer cell lines in the absence of netrin - 1 induced apoptosis .
Since then , important progress has been made with respect to the understanding of the role of the Pten protein in the normal development of the brain as well as in the molecular pathogenesis of human gliomas .
LDH5 overexpression in cancer cells induces an upregulated glycolytic metabolism and reduced dependence on the presence of oxygen .
We hypothesized that activation of store - operated Ca2 + channels ( SOCs ) is sufficient to promote cell shape change necessary for these processes .
There is a crucial need to identify parameters that can predict a tendancy to metastatic spread to allow better prognostic evaluation and therapeutic approach .
On the contrary , the constitutive activation of Nrf2 due to mutations in the keap1 gene is characteristically observed in lung cancer cells , suggesting that induced expression of Nrf2 target genes favors the prevalence of cancer cells .
The migration of vascular endothelial cells ( ECs ) plays an important role in vascular remodeling .
Regulation of p53 - dependent apoptosis , transcriptional repression , and cell transformation by phosphorylation of the 55 - kilodalton E1B protein of human adenovirus type 5 .
Assays used to screen for BRAF mutations in the clinic should be robust enough to detect the p . Val600Lys mutation , as this may have therapeutic implications .
Meanwhile , the adhesion and invasion ability of MCF - 7 cells were sharply inhibited when treated with different concentrations of curcumin .
Vinculin staining showed that the leading edge of ECs on 15 - microm wide strips had focal adhesions that were oriented with their lamellipodial protrusion and the direction of cell migration ; this arrangement of the focal adhesions may promote EC migration .
ICAM - 3 enhances the migratory and invasive potential of human non - small cell lung cancer cells by inducing MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 via Akt and CREB .
The baseline visual acuity was similar in the various study groups .
To delineate the roles that oxygen and fibroblast growth factors ( FGFs ) play in the process of angiogenesis from the embryonic aorta , we cultured mouse embryonic aorta explants ( thoracic level to lateral vessels supplying the mesonephros and metanephros ) in a three - dimensional type I collagen gel matrix .
Malate - citrate cycle during glycolysis and glutaminolysis in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells .
Angiogenesis - dependent diseases result when new blood vessels either grow excessively or insufficiently .
Protein kinase C levels in several transformed cell lines were subject to down modulation in a similar growth state - dependent manner .
Early relapse with distant metastasis often is observed in patients with cancer after resection of the primary tumor .
Angiogenesis is a fundamental process to normal and abnormal tissue growth and repair , which consists of recruiting endothelial cells toward an angiogenic stimulus .
The main purpose of the present investigation was to study the effect of the homologous series of 4 - alkylmorpholine N - oxides on ATP - producing processes in Ehrlich ascites and L1210 murine leukaemia cells .
The results suggest that in this strain , the malate - citrate shuttle is not an effective pathway for transferring glycolytic reducing equivalents from cytosol to mitochondria .
The angiopoietin / Tie2 system has been identified as the second vascular - specific receptor tyrosine kinase system controlling vessel assembly , maturation , and quiescence .
Green fluorescence protein transfected cancer cells were injected into the mammary fat pad of young female mice .
Anoikis was preceded by induction and transloction of a 45 - kDa clusterin isoform to the nucleus .
To directly address whether pericyte dysfunction increases the metastatic potential of solid tumors , we studied beta cell tumorigenesis in primary pericyte - deficient Pdgfb ( ret / ret ) mice .
Moreover , HTPB inhibited activity of MMP2 and MMP9 , reduced integrin - beta1 / focal adhesion complex formation and decreased pericellular poly - fibronectin assemblies .
Eleven lesions progressed to a subfoveal location by 12 months .
Calculations of the sources of energy for adenosine triphosphate synthesis indicated that on the average about one - third of the respiratory adenosine triphosphate is generated by electron flow originating from cytosolic NADH via the malate - aspartate shuttle .
Individuals with MEN IIA should therefore undergo early prophylactic thyroidectomy once the diagnosis is confirmed by molecular genetic testing .
We observed a significant up - regulation of VEGF - B ( P = 0 . 002 ) but not VEGF - C ( P = 0 . 3 ) in neoplastic kidney compared with normal tissues .
Exposure of SKOV - 3 cells to paclitaxel or carboplatin along with 317615 2HCl resulted in cell survivals that reflected additivity of 317615 x 2HCl with paclitaxel and greater - than - additive cytotoxicity with carboplatin .
Expanded polytetrafluoroethylene ( ePTFE ) vascular grafts were coated with perlecan and tested in an ovine carotid interposition model for a period of 6 weeks and assessed using light and scanning microscopy .
In conclusion , this study identifies new functional properties for CD154 , which are potentially relevant for the growth and dissemination of renal carcinoma cells .
GTPase - deficient , constitutively activated mutant of Galpha ( 12 ) ( Galpha ( 12 ) Q229L or Galpha ( 12 ) QL ) has been previously shown to induce oncogenic transformation of NIH3T3 cells promoting serum - and anchorage - independent growth .
c - MYC functions as a molecular switch to alter the response of human mammary epithelial cells to oncostatin M .
The number of lymph node metastases was significantly higher in HEC1A / VEGF - C cells than in HEC1A cells ( 3 . 2 vs 1 . 1 nodes / animal , respectively ) .
The current study was conducted to characterize the effect of insulin on retinal VEGF gene expression in vitro and in vivo .
Endothelial cell migration is an essential step in vasculogenesis and angiogenesis , in which receptor tyrosine kinases play a pivotal role .
After additional prednisolone treatment from day 9 or 15 after inoculation , no significant difference was detected in the recultivation rate of C . albicans compared with the control .
Many observations in various animal models and humans support that the remodeling of preexisting collateral vessels is the mechanism of collateral artery formation .
In contrast , the implants that were irradiated three times ( single fractions at 0 , 24 , and 48 hours after implantation ) demonstrated significantly diminished ( greater than 25 percent , p less than 0 . 05 ) neovascularization beyond day 7 , whereas implants irradiated only at 48 hours after implantation did not .
RESULTS : Osteopontin small interference RNA ( siRNA ) inhibited osteopontin expression and cell invasion , promoted apoptosis in U251 cells .
A characteristic of malignant cells is their capacity to invade their surrounding and to metastasize to distant organs .
Research and discovery of the first human cancer virus , HTLV - 1 .
Similar to in vivo FdG - PET or primary breast cancers , rates of glycolysis were diverse , being higher in cells expressing both c - Myc and HIF - 1alpha and lower in cell lines low or negative in both transcription factors .
All the tumors produced grew progressively without showing regression and killed the mice .
Because the intravenously injected lipoplexes migrated within seconds to lungs , we checked whether the effects of immediate contact with serum correlate with lung lipofection efficiency of different DOTAP - based formulations .
They were treated with HBO in 56 + / - 10 consecutive HBO sessions .
We have investigated the expression of the CD40 - CD154 system in 24 primary cultures derived from renal cell carcinomas , its correlation with tumor stage and its potential functional significance .
These results show that matrix metalloproteinases are present at elevated levels during early wound healing , when angiogenesis occurs , and suggest that matrix metalloproteinase - 9 may play a significant role .
Thrombin increases the mRNA and protein levels of alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) integrin and serves as a ligand to this receptor .
Histological examination revealed cystic or angiomatoid spaces of various sizes lined by cuboidal , low - columnar , or flattened epithelioid cells with vacuolated cytoplasm and round to oval nuclei .
They are also known to trigger free radical generation .
Pretreatment with aspirin and nimesulide inhibited EC9706 and EC109 cell growth in a time and dose - dependent manner , accompanied with a decrease of prostaglandin E2 production .
Nevertheless , the repression of VEGF - C was lost in mutant VHL cell lines under hypoxia .
Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest is found at the end of this article .
Further prospective studies are needed to prove the clinical impact of D2 - 40 .
To address this issue , an activated neu oncogene was introduced into an immortalized nontumorigenic human breast epithelial cell line ( 184B5 ) .
Univariate and multivariate analyses revealed high PLD as the only independent variable predictive of neck metastasis .
Our data suggest for the first time that S727 phosphorylation is sufficient to activate Stat3 , thereby driving prostate tumorigenesis independent of Y705 phosphorylation .
Thrombospondin is a potent inhibitor of angiogenesis and might therefore be important in controlling tumour growth .
Inhibition of MEK also blocked growth factor induced migration but not adhesion of endothelial cells in vitro .
Here we demonstrate that repetitive exposure to tobacco smoke promotes tumor development both in carcinogen - treated mice and in transgenic mice undergoing sporadic K - ras activation in lung epithelial cells .
BACKGROUND : The aim of this study was to investigate not only the intratumoral and peritumoral lymphatic vessel density ( ILD and PLD ) but also the expression of vascular endothelial growth factors ( VEGFs ) and to test their correlation with regional lymph nodal metastases in papillary thyroid microcarcinoma ( PTMC ) .
BACKGROUND : The PI3K - Akt signal pathway plays a key role in tumorigenesis and the development of drug - resistance .
However , other experimental data indicate that NF - kappaB can play a tumor suppressor role in certain settings and that it can be important in promoting an apoptotic signal downstream of certain cancer therapy regimens .
The cohort examined was relatively small and with larger patient numbers , MDM2 overexpression may emerge as a more significant covariate .
Multivariate analysis showed that this profile was independently the most significant prognostic factor ( P = 0 . 001 ) .
Since both cell lines remained non - tumorigenic in nude mice , these properties indicate that they attained a premalignant phenotype .
The same result was obtained when the model contained ER status and ER - tamoxifen interaction .
Also , a significant correlation existed between CTGF mRNA levels versus tumor grade , gender , and pathology .
These results suggest that there is cell type specificity for oncogene activation during in vitro rat bladder transformation initiated by a single carcinogen and that ras gene activation is not a necessary step in urothelial transformation in vitro .
The difference in diagnostic performance was not significant on receiver operating characteristic analysis ( P > 0 . 4 ) .
This assay allows exploration of angiogenesis in fat tissue .
CONCLUSIONS : DCE - MRI permits a noninvasive evaluation of tumour microcirculation and in particular of its dynamic characteristics and vascularity before and after antiangiogenic treatment .
In 1983 , Harold Dvorak and his colleagues were the first to show that tumor cells secreted vascular permeability factor ( VPF ) and that a blocking antibody to VPF could prevent the edema and fluid accumulation that is characteristic of human cancers .
The update information testifies about protumoral activity of neutrophils : they migrate to a tumor and promote angiogenesis and metastasis at late stages of the tumor .
RESULTS : Both SAT and VAT expressed angiogenic factors without significant difference for vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression .
Though less efficient in energy production , it ensures continuous supply of energy and phosphometabolites for biosynthesis enabling metastatic and less vascularized cancer cells to proliferate even under hypoxic conditions .
An understanding of the complex interactions involved in these pathways might allow the development of novel therapeutic strategies for rheumatoid arthritis .
Semaphorins and their cognate receptors , Plexins and neuropilins , are involved in neuronal pathfinding , immune function , and tumor progression through effects on blood vessel growth and cell migration .
The effects of this compound on the vascular development lend credibility to its potential as an anticancer agent .
Cooperative activation of Meis1 and Hoxa9 perturbs myeloid differentiation and eventually leads myeloid progenitors to leukemia , yet it remains to be clarified what kinds of subsequent molecular processes are required for development of overt leukemia .
Troponin I inhibits capillary endothelial cell proliferation by interaction with the cell ' s bFGF receptor .
MDM2 overexpression was manually classified as > 5 % nuclear staining .
There was a significant positive relationship between PAI - 1 levels and N - stage ( p = < 0 . 05 ) , presence of nodal metastases ( p = < 0 . 05 ) , stage grouping ( p = < 0 . 01 ) and extent of disease ( p = < 0 . 05 ) in the total group and the SCC subgroup , but not adenocarcinoma .
Tumor microenvironment , a dangerous society leading to cancer metastasis .
Suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid ( SAHA ) has been approved as a drug to treat cutaneous T cell lymphoma , and the combination of HDACi and other agents have been actively tested in many clinical trials .
The role of platelet - derived endothelial cell growth factor / thymidine phosphorylase in tumor behavior .
The effect of taxol , cobalt chloride and a heparin - steroid combination was tested in the fat tissue assay and compared to the validated human placental vein angiogenesis model ( HPVAM ) .
C / EBPbeta is over - expressed in gastric carcinogenesis and is associated with COX - 2 expression .
In this study , the aim was to investigate the effect of phenolic acids found abundantly in vegetables , i . e . gallic acid ( GA ) , caffeic acid ( CA ) and protocatechuic acid ( PCA ) , on the inhibition of gastric adenocarcinoma ( AGS ) cell metastasis .
Mice primed with dimethyl - benz [ a ] anthracene ( DMBA ) were topically exposed to Cum - OOH ( 82 . 6 micromol ) or the positive control , 12 - O - tetradecanoylphorbol - 13 - acetate ( TPA , 17 nmol ) , twice weekly for 29 weeks .
However , as yet , there is no genetic evidence for a role of autophagy genes in tumor suppression .
p63 - positive carcinomas were poorly differentiated , hormone receptor - negative neoplasms with a high proliferation rate .
Targeting glucose consumption and autophagy in myeloma with the novel nucleoside analogue 8 - aminoadenosine .
Presence of subfoveal CNV at 6 and 12 months of follow - up was determined by review of fluorescein angiograms .
Since other DNA tumor viruses , such as simian virus 40 and adenovirus , have previously been shown to interact with cellular protein p53 , we investigated whether infection of cells by HCMV would modulate cellular p53 levels .
c - Ski , originally identified as a proto - oncogene product , is an important negative regulator of transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - beta family signaling through interaction with Smad2 , Smad3 , and Smad4 .
In patients with atherosclerotic vascular diseases , collateral vessels bypassing major arterial obstructions have frequently been observed .
Based on these optimized parameters , a prototype diagnostic / treatment system was designed that captures high - speed indocyanine green ( ICG ) angiogram images and facilitates analysis of the images by enhancing visualization of dye movement through CNV feeder vessels ( FVs ) .
The effects of 3 - mercaptopicolinic acid , a potent inhibitor of gluconeogenesis , was also examined on this model .
The vessels are derived from quiescient vessels within the fat .
Tumorigenic activity of rho genes from Aplysia californica .
Apoptosis , characterized by nuclear condensation , membrane blebbing , cell shrinkage and a significant induction of caspase - 3 - like protease activity at 8 h in a time - course study were observed .
Glutamine and glucose as energy substrates for Ehrlich ascites tumour cells .
This result suggested that either the structural or the functional integrity of the J domain is required to sensitize cells to apoptosis .
It is concluded that VCSA is a complex of several antigenic determinants , and that some of these differ in different cells transformed by RSV .
With the appropriate agent , targeting endosialin may interfere with blood vessel growth during tumor development .
These results indicate carbohydrate metabolism is altered in dogs with lymphoma .
Telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein complex critically involved in extending and maintaining telomeres .
Two of them were selected for high or low osteonectin expression and tested in vivo in spontaneous and artificial metastasis assays .
This hypothesis was tested using the 2G7 IgG2b , which neutralizes TGF - beta 1 , - beta 2 , and - beta 3 , and the MDA - 231 human breast cancer cell line .
In contrast , MMP - 9 expression was higher in stage III - IV NSCLC cases compared to stage I - II tumors ( p < 0 . 05 ) and higher in NSCLC cases with metastasis than those without metastasis ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
Here , we investigate the role of TSP - 1 in tumor - stroma reaction , which is mainly characterized by fibroblast activation to create a permissive microenvironment for tumor progression .
Angiogenesis has become an attractive target for drug therapy because of its key role in tumor growth .
Enforced expression of tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase - 3 affects functional capillary morphogenesis and inhibits tumor growth in a murine tumor model .
As a result , cells are protected from apoptosis and senescence while becoming highly sensitive to glucose deprivation .
Here , we expressed the catalytic domain of VEGFR - 2 as a soluble active kinase using Bac - to - Bac expression system , and investigated correlations between VEGFR - 2 activity and enzyme concentration , ATP concentration , substrate concentration and divalent cation type .
These results are consistent with our initial hypothesis and lead us to propose that MKK inhibition by LeTx is a broadly effective strategy for targeting neovascularization in fibrosarcomas and other similar proliferative lesions .
We compared a treatment schedule were cells were bolus incubated for 3h with doxorubicin followed by 24h in drug - free medium , with a continuous doxorubicin treatment schedule for 24h .
However , how survivin couples to the cell death machinery has remained elusive , and the relevant cellular targets of survivin antagonists have not been completely elucidated .
The experimental studies in vitro and in vivo were performed to investigate the effects of carcinostatic agents in the adhesion of cancer cells to endothelial cells .
Thus , vimentin expression may be helpful in identifying a substantial subset of ER - independent breast carcinomas with poor prognostic indicators .
However , the underlying mechanism is poorly understood .
31P MR spectra showed that phosphocreatine was present in H5 spheroids but not in H4 spheroids or tumors .
Diacylglycerol ( DG ) plays a central role in phospholipid metabolism and is an endogenous activator of protein kinase C .
Apoptosis ( programmed cell death ) regulates cell population size .
In contrast , the conditioned media induce elevated levels of proapoptotic mediators in the Chang hepatocytes .
Although the increase in p53 levels could be a secondary by - product of the transformed state , it is equally possible that p53 is actively involved in altering cellular growth properties , especially as it has been implicated in the regulation of normal cell proliferation .
Integrin alpha5beta1 immobilized on a ProteoChip was used to screen new antagonistic peptides from multiple hexapeptide sub - libraries of the positional scanning synthetic peptide combinatorial library ( PS - SPCL ) .
Expression of KISS1 and MMP - 9 in non - small cell lung cancer and their relations to metastasis and survival .
RESULTS : The control group showed the highest level of corneal clouding and neovascularization .
Moreover , the lymph nodes close to the salivary glands were enlarged , and histology showed that they had activated follicles .
Furthermore , we show that p53 is activated in virally infected cells to evoke an apoptotic response and that p53 is critical for antiviral defence of the host .
It is suggested that inhibition of tumour angiogenesis by vitamin E may be an additional mechanism for the anticancer action of vitamin E .
CONCLUSIONS : Fluconazole plus adjunct high - dose prednisolone treatment was most effective when administered 9 days after infection .
Inhibition of glucose metabolism enhanced killing of myeloid leukemia U937 , cervical carcinoma HeLa , and breast carcinoma MCF - 7 cells upon death receptor ligation .
Three weeks later , 2 x 10 ( 6 ) cells from three groups were implanted into the scar .
Given that PLCbeta3 is typically known as an effector of heterotrimeric G - proteins , our data demonstrate a unique crosstalk between the G - protein and receptor tyrosine kinase ( RTK ) axes and reveal a novel molecular mechanism of VEGF signaling and , thus , angiogenesis .
A series of epithelial cell lines and a single fibroblast cell line established in this way were analysed for the presence of transforming genes by DNA transfection into NIH3T3 cells .
Solid tumors are frequently necrotic and hypoxic due to poor vascularization .
Ectopic overexpression of junB induced transformation of revertant EMS - 1 - 19 , but failed to transform Rat - 1 cells .
In the present study , we investigated the antiangiogenic mechanism of 3 , 6 - di ( 2 , 3 - epoxypropoxy ) xanthone ( EPOX ) , a novel Mcl - 1 targeting drug .
Epithelial keratitis , disciform edema , and necrotizing keratitis with neovascularization of the cornea developed in control animals .
In addition , syndecans bind to obesity - related factors and regulate their signaling , in turn modulating food consumption and weight balance .
Two of the mutations included a G to C substitution at codon 12 , and a G to A substitution at codon 18 , resulting in a glycine to arginine , and an alanine to threonine change at these amino acids , respectively .
In contrast , rap1GAPII , a negative regulator of Rap1 , did not inhibit ephrin - B1 - induced membrane ruffling .
The MVD and Ki - 67 LI were significantly higher ( p less than 0 . 01 and p less than 0 . 001 ) , and the AI was significantly lower ( p less than 0 . 001 ) in the SCC with p53 protein expression than in the SCC without it .
Modulating metastasis by a lymphangiogenic switch in prostate cancer .
The neural stem cell fate determinant TLX promotes tumorigenesis and genesis of cells resembling glioma stem cells .
METHODS : Immunohistochemical and PCR - SSCP techniques were used to detect c - kit protein expression and c - kit gene exon 11 mutation in 82 patients with GIST .
Moreover , the ternary combination resulted in a significant increase of VEGF secretion in HT - 29 cancer cells .
Supernatant from cultures of Ve - and OMP - stimulated HGF strongly induced VPE .
The permeability of plasma membranes for K + increases 2 . 75 fold , while the passive flux of Na + diminishes .
Also , the combination of docetaxel and ATRA might allow a reduction in docetaxel doses and by this way may diminish docetaxel adverse effects while maintaining the therapeutic effect in patients with HRPC .
Several members were detected in insulinoma cell lines and rat islets and expression levels positively correlated with insulin abundance , particularly for p24delta1 and p24beta1 .
AIM : To determine whether a variety of ciliary body tumours synthesise opticin to characterise further its role in ciliary body health and disease .
Furthermore , induction of MKP - 1 correlated with the inhibition of extracellular signal - regulated kinase ( ERK1 / 2 ) and c - Jun N - terminal kinase ( JNK ) activity , whereas p38 activity was minimally affected .
Platelet activation occurs in the tumor microenvironment and may influence local invasion and metastasis .
METHODS : Tissues samples were taken from 60 patients with esophageal SCC after surgery .
Lysates of cells from the granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor ( GM - CSF ) - dependent myeloid leukemic cell line TF1 were separated into high molecular weight ( HMW ) pellets of intact DNA and supernatants of fragmented low MW ( LMW ) DNA , and the DNA purified from these fractions was quantified .
U - 995 is composed of two single peptides with molecular mass of 10 and 14 kDa , respectively .
Unlike wounds , however , that turn off VPF production after healing , tumors did not turn off their VPF production and instead continued to make large amounts of VPF , allowing malignant cells to continue to induce new blood vessels and so to grow and spread .
HAH - cortisol at 10 ( - 4 ) M ( with respect to cortisol ) did not suppress the DNA synthesis of Lewis lung carcinoma cells .
Compared to cRGDyK and HL , cRGD - HL has high binding affinity to purified alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) integrin .
Histopathological development of gastric tumors induced by N - methyl - N ' - nitro - N - nitrosoguanidine in rats .
The findings in the tissue samples were analyzed with regard to the patients ' risk factors and clinical course .
Our previous studies have shown that the neurotransmitter dopamine could inhibit VEGF - induced phosphorylation of VEGF receptor 2 ( VEGFR - 2 ) , endothelial cell proliferation , migration , microvascular permeability , and thus , angiogenesis .
In the orthotopic xenograft model , rAAV2 / 5 - VAS suppressed metastasis of A549 tumors to mediastinal lymph nodes and contralateral lung .
In addition , it inhibits human umbilical vein endothelial cell proliferation , migration , adhesion , tubular network formation , and bFGF - induced neovascularization in a chick chorioallantoic membrane .
Apoptosis is a regulated form of cell death that may be triggered by natural killer ( NK ) or cytotoxic T cells , which effect target cell lysis by cytolytic effector and related proteins through complex intracellular signals .
After 7 days , the pellets from animals fed the control diet were infiltrated by abundant branching networks of blood vessels with patent lumen - containing RBCs .
Furthermore , i . p . treatment with Hyp reduces acute PMN recruitment and enhances resolution in a pulmonary bleomycin - induced inflammation model , significantly reducing consequent fibrosis .
Apoptosis , or programmed cell death , is thought to play a role in the dichotomous behavior of neuroblastoma .
Ectopic PTTG overexpression in a representative ESCC cell line , EC9706 , increased in vitro cell migration and invasion and promoted in vivo lymph node metastasis .
Herein , we report that these compounds effectively inhibited SDF - 1 - induced migration of human breast cancer cells ( MDA - MB - 231 ) , human leukemia T cells ( Sup - T1 ) and human umbilical vein endothelial cells at concentrations of 10 - 100 nM in vitro .
RESULT : The average IMVD was ( 21 . 50 + / - 8 . 87 ) , and median of AI was 1 . 15 % .
DNA microarray analysis and small animal PET studies may be used as complementary technologies in drug development .
Immunohistochemistry scores for matrix metalloproteinase - 9 expression were significantly elevated compared to controls in scar endothelial cells and fibroblasts from 2 until 12 and 20 weeks , respectively .
Clusterin gene expression is potently induced in experimental models in which apoptosis is activated , such as rat prostate involution following castration .
Analysis of molecular aberrations of Wnt pathway gladiators in colorectal cancer in the Kashmiri population .
The discovery that this gene is also frequently mutated in human leukemia has increased the interest in the role that RUNX1 plays in both normal and transforming pathways .
We found positive Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 immunostaining in 44 . 6 % , 28 . 6 % , and 58 . 9 % of the studied primary tumors and in 63 . 6 % , 45 . 5 % , and 72 . 7 % of lymph node metastases , respectively .
Inhibitors of Hedgehog signaling have been the subject of intense research .
There was no correlation between the expression of HLA - DR and infiltration by dendritic cells .
Immunohistochemistry assay was performed for topo I protein expression in 249 primary human colorectal cancer and 42 paired lymph node metastasis samples .
Furthermore , beclin 1 heterozygous disruption results in increased cellular proliferation and reduced autophagy in vivo .
By use of electric mobility shift assays , we demonstrate that alpha - MSH ( 10 ( - 6 ) to 10 ( - 14 ) M ) activates AP - 1 in human dermal fibroblasts , whereas coincubation with interleukin - 1 beta ( IL - 1 beta ) results in suppression of its activation .
However , current data do not conclusively show evidence of angiogenesis per se in these conditions , despite ( for example ) the presence of high levels of VEGF and Ang - 2 .
This review summarizes the current state of the art concerning the involvement of aberrant Pten function in the development of different biologic features of malignant gliomas , such as loss of cell - cycle control and uncontrolled cell proliferation , escape from apoptosis , brain invasion , and aberrant neoangiogenesis .
HGF were stimulated with lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) , vesicle ( Ve ) and outer membrane protein ( OMP ) from Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans and Porphyromonas gingivalis .
We investigated the roles of the prostaglandin synthases cyclooxygenase ( COX ) I and COX - II in angiogenesis and progesterone production in the newly formed CL , using inhibitors of the COX enzymes and the gonadotropin - induced pseudopregnant rat as a model .
Large amounts of cytosolic NADH were oxidized by the mitochondrial respiratory chain via the NADH shuttle , comprising anywhere from about 20 to 80 % of the total flow of reducing equivalents to oxygen in these tumors .
Placed in the framework of other recently published work , the observations of Villani et al . both raise questions about the cell of origin for basal cell cancers and define additional putative therapeutic and preventive targets for this disease .
Furthermore , rat mammary carcinomas with elevated neu expression ( neu - induced ) also had sharply elevated LAR - PTPase expression when compared to rat mammary carcinomas with little or no neu expression ( 7 , 12 - dimethylbenzanthracene induced ) ; the level of expression of LAR PTPase was directly correlated with the level of neu expression .
Interestingly , the expression of IL - 17A from CD4 T cells in the lamina propria remains unchanged in the absence of IL - 17F .
Both PLD1 and PLD2 also induced an up - regulation of the activity of matrix metalloprotease - 9 as detected by zymograms .
While betulin exhibited only moderate anticancer activity in other human cancer cells such as hepatoma SK - HEP - 1 cells , prostate carcinoma PC - 3 , and lung carcinoma NCI - H460 , with IC ( 50 ) values ranging from 20 to 60 microg / mL , it showed minor growth inhibition in human erythroleukemia K562 cells ( IC ( 50 ) > 100 microg / mL ) .
In addition , the pathogenesis of some human cancers is attributed to misregulation of TGFbeta function and SMAD2 or SMAD4 mutations .
Analysis of the LTR region reveals a potential internal promoter element for RNA polymerase III transcription within the U3 region .
A selective marker of normal and neoplastic mesothelial cells in serous effusions .
The results indicated that exogenous lactate was the major substrate for oxidative metabolism .
Moreover , we observed an increase in apoptosis of latent gene - expressing cells after the pharmacologic deletion of the vGPCR - expressing cells .
In only 3 out of 13 cases , representing patients with adenocarcinomas of the stomach receiving chemotherapy , was ras p21 detected at elevated levels , whereas in patients with the following types of cancer no substantial change in serum ras p21 was observed ; nine with breast , 5 colon , 5 lung , 5 ovarian and 5 hepatocellular carcinomas .
But because these experiments were performed on confluent cultures of established cell lines , the differences are difficult to attribute to ras transformation .
In cultured b . END5 cells the tumor necrosis factor alpha - induced up - regulation of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 and vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 was reduced in ECs that were preincubated with basic fibroblast growth factor or vascular endothelial growth factor .
The results of our current studies provide strong experimental evidence for the use of ciprofloxacin as a potential preventive and / or therapeutic agent for the management of transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder .
The inhibition of migration by HKa is reversed by antibodies to urokinase - type plasminogen activator receptor .
Epidermal growth factor and its receptor .
Moreover , the overexpression of IGF1 - R in these cells was associated with IGF1 - R - induced activation of Akt and up - regulation of the antiapoptotic protein Bcl - x ( L ) .
These results suggest that p24delta1 and possibly other p24 family proteins are required for normal insulin biosynthesis and subsequent secretion in pancreatic beta - cells .
Following proteolysis , it is thought that the intracellular portion of Notch ( N ( ic ) ) translocates to the nucleus , where it is involved in regulating gene expression .
Hypoxia - inducible factor - 1 ( HIF - 1 ) is one of the key mammalian transcription factors and shows increased levels in both protein stability and intrinsic transcriptional activity during low oxygen tension .
Interestingly , we find that the deletion of miR - BHRF1 - 2 reduced the expression level of miR - BHRF1 - 3 and possibly that of miR - BHRF1 - 1 , demonstrating that the expression of one miRNA can potentiate the expression of other miRNAs located in the same cluster .
Correlation of lymphatic vessel density and vascular endothelial growth factor with nodal metastasis in papillary thyroid microcarcinoma .
Vimentin expression , growth fractions ( GF ) , and estrogen receptor ( ER ) levels were determined for 90 untreated primary breast carcinomas .
We investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying NRP1 - mediated angiogenesis by analyzing the association of NRP1 and KDR .
These results show that STX243 is a potent in vivo drug and could be clinically effective at treating a number of oncological conditions .
Therefore , we have identified a novel role for PSMA as a true molecular interface , integrating both extracellular and intracellular signals during angiogenesis .
[ ( 18 ) F ] deoxyglucose uptake correlates with glucose transporter ( GLUT - 1 ) expression , which can be regulated by hypoxia - inducible factor 1 alpha ( HIF - 1alpha ) .
This down - regulation is accompanied by a rapid cleavage of Tie1 and binding of the cleaved Tie1 45 kDa endodomain to Tie2 .
As HIF - 2alpha activity has been associated not only with hypoxic but also with hypoglycemic conditions , we have investigated putative effects of hypoxia , glucose depletion , and HIF - 2alpha on the neuroblastoma phenotype .
On day 21 , all rats received 5 x 10 ( 5 ) hepatoma cells intrasplenically .
Thus , these results together suggest that sunitinib initially exerts its apoptotic effect through the inhibition of VEGFR - 2 , which , when followed by reduction of its downstream effectors , including Akt / mTOR / S6K1 , may lead to inhibition of the antiapoptotic molecule Bcl - 2 and activation of the proapoptotic molecule BAD in PC12 cells .
hADA3 binds selectively to the high - risk HPV E6 proteins and only to immortalization - competent E6 mutants .
In this model , UFT showed a strong angiogenesis - inhibitory effect , whereas 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) and doxifluridine were less effective .
The authors show that resection of the primary osteosarcoma tumor enhances progression of pulmonary metastasis in animal osteosarcoma models .
The expression of metallothionein - 1 ( Mt - 1 ) gene , which is regulated by GR , was induced significantly by the combination of DMI and FA , and enhanced significantly by pretreatment with FA but not DMI .
Treatment of cells with PKC inhibitors also potentiated anchorage - independent growth of BPDE treated cells on soft agar .
CONCLUSIONS : Our findings suggest that transcriptional repression of HRK is caused by promoter hypermethylation in PCNSL , and that the loss of HRK associated with the methylation profile of other genes is a potential step in the modulation of cellular death by apoptosis during PCNSL tumorigenesis .
METHODS : Using two - dimensional electrophoresis and liquid chromatography - electrospray ionization - tandem mass spectrometry ( LC - ESI - MS / MS ) , we analyzed differentially displayed proteomics of human hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines Hep3B , MHCC97L , MHCC97H with different metastasic potential .
Cooperative transformation by c - MYC and OSM required PI3K and AKT signaling , showing the importance of multiple signaling pathways downstream of the OSM receptor in defining the cellular response to cytokines .
Thus , genetic loss or inhibition of BRK1 is likely to be protective against tumor development due to proliferation and motility defects in affected cells .
Immune consequences of burn injury .
Tumor cells adapt to hypoxia by modulating their phenotype .
The impact of elevated VEGF expression on the course of chronic myeloid leukaemia is unknown .
In conclusion , our study revealed that the overexpression of EphA2 protein in colorectal carcinoma tissue correlates closely with cancer progression and hematogenous and lymphogenous metastasis , suggesting that both EphA2 and E - cadherin may play an important role in tumor metastasis in colorectal cancer .
These transcripts were localized in stromal fibroblasts adjacent to the neoplastic foci .
The marked induction of angiogenesis in glioblastomas suggests that it is a necessary part of malignant progression ; however , the precise molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of brain tumour growth and angiogenesis remain unresolved .
The aim of this study was to address the role of pro - and anti - angiogenic molecules in diabetic retinopathy in the aqueous humor of the eye .
Together , these data further establish the involvement of endothelial PECAM - 1 in angiogenesis and suggest that , in vivo , PECAM - 1 may stimulate endothelial cell motility by promoting the formation of filopodia .
Partial tissue oxygen tension ( PtO ( 2 ) ) was measured with polarographic microprobes ; epithelial metabolism was monitored by microdialysis inside the TET epithelium perfused with the medium underneath .
Overexpression of c - Ski inhibited TGF - beta signaling in OCUM - 2MLN cells .
In vivo and in vitro results .
Furthermore , ARD1 interacted physically with and acetylated the AR protein in vivo and in vitro .
Vimentin is preferentially expressed in human breast carcinomas with low estrogen receptor and high Ki - 67 growth fraction .
[ Radiologic - pathologic correlations in breast diseases ]
The epithelioid cells were entirely supported by proliferated capillaries and arteries together with collagenous stroma .
Under specific conditions , casein could be used as an exogenous substrate as well .
Targeting TNF for Treatment of Cancer and Autoimmunity .
Actin signaling controls serum response factor ( SRF ) activity via SRF interaction with the myocardin - related transcriptional activator ( MRTF ) - A and tethering to a single CArG box sequence within the CCN1 promoter .
Finally , an immunohistochemistry method ( Hypoxyprobe ) demonstrated that tissue hypoxia was present in the spleen and BM .
VTAs can be divided into two groups : antiangiogenic agents and vascular - disrupting agents ( VDAs ) .
Photodynamic therapy ( PDT ) is a novel treatment entity that exploits the photophysical properties of various photosensitive chemical entities which , upon light activation , results in targeted photooxidation and subsequent tissue destruction .
Inhibition of NF - kappaB significantly reduced transcript levels and autocrine production of BMP - 2 by rhTNF - alpha stimulated C4 - 2B cells and to a lesser extent by the parental LNCaP cells .
PURPOSE : Neovascularization has profound effects on tumor growth and metastasis .
There was no significant association between an increased risk of cervical cancer and polymorphisms of the death pathway genes FAS and FASL .
The ability of distinct subdomains within VASP to bind adhesion proteins and induce F - actin bundling in vivo suggests that this protein could function in the aggregation and tethering of actin filaments during the formation of endothelial cell - substrate and cell - cell contacts .
This limitation may be resolved by in vivo delivery and expression of the antiangiogenic genes .
It may modulate cellular energy metabolism or be a substrate in a chemical reaction generating reactive oxygen species .
Recently , overexpression of EphA2 , a member of the Eph family of receptor tyrosine kinases , has been reported in several cancers .
Matrigel plug neovascularization assay revealed that systemic angiogenic activity was elevated after primary tumor removal ( tumor intact group , 1 . 61 + / - 0 . 21 g / dL ; tumor removed group , 4 . 92 + / - 0 . 35 g / dL ) .
Our studies demonstrate that IFI16 mediates ICAM - 1 stimulation by TNF - alpha through the NF - kappaB pathway , thus reinforcing the role of the IFI16 molecule in the inflammation process .
Villani et al . define a key role for the IGF regulatory protein Igfbp2 in a genetic model of basal cell carcinogenesis driven by targeted constitutive activation of hedgehog signaling .
Recent advances have fostered a more detailed understanding of molecular mechanisms and networks governing EMT in tumor progression .
Separate rats underwent splenocyte and KC harvest for assessment of lymphocyte - and macrophage - mediated tumor cell kill in vitro .
There was a significant positive relationship between PAI - 1 levels and T - stage ( p = < 0 . 05 ) in the total group , and survival status ( p = < 0 . 05 ) in the SCC subgroup alone .
DMI inhibited cell proliferation in a time - dependent manner .
However , the expression level of E - cadherin had an inverse relationship with both differentiation level of the tumor and lymphatic vessel invasion ( p = 0 . 0430 and 0 . 0320 , respectively ) .
These immortally transformed cells ( KMST - 6 ) showed no clonability in soft agar and were not tumorigenic .
Melanoma cells and human fibroblasts adhered to immobilized DC - 9 in a Mn ( 2 + ) - dependent fashion suggesting an integrin - mediated process .
The nature of these substrates was confirmed by proteolysis techniques .
In addition , the expression of Bcl - 2 , uPA , MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 was decreased , while Bax level was elevated .
Similar to tumors expressing dominant - negative TGF - beta type II receptor , histochemical studies revealed less fibrosis and increased angiogenesis in xenografted tumors expressing c - Ski compared to control tumors .
Newly forming vessels have thin caliber , a markedly reduced vessel lumen , markedly reduced pericyte recruitment , and deficient vascular perfusion .
TGF alpha was studied with the appropriate antibody .
Structural changes were promoted by toxicity of glucose degradation products ( GDPs ) which are generated during heat sterilization in peritoneal dialysis fluids ( PDFs ) .
Both small RNAs contain a latency promoter binding factor consensus recognition sequence located toward their 5 ' ends as well as two potential ICP4 recognition consensus sequences , one in each orientation .
These data confirm the importance of tissue architecture and polarity in malignant progression .
This induction of Ets - 1 could be reproduced in in vivo denudation of rat aortic endothelium by a balloon catheter .
For investigation of cell suspensions , four pleural fluids were incubated with anticalretinin antiserum .
Four weeks later , islet gene analysis and pancreas immunochemistry were performed .
The glucose turnover rate was significantly greater in TB compared with NTB animals , as was the rate of glucose recycling and the rate of gluconeogenesis ( alanine leads to glucose ) , both energy demanding processes .
RAGE ( receptor for AGE ) is the best characterized signal transduction receptor for AGEs and is expressed on mesothelial cells .
We used a series of cell clones from a human teratocarcinoma cell line , PA - 1 , to study the effect of transformation by an activated N - ras oncogene on the expression of genes involved in retinoic acid ( RA ) - induced differentiation and growth regulation .
METHODS : PTEN promoter methylation was detected in surgical specimens of CCMs ( n = 69 ) by methylation - specific polymerase chain reaction .
The metabolic functions of p53 resist the shift to glycolysis that is characteristically seen in cancers , and also help cells adapt to and survive limited periods of metabolic stress .
However , these cells can be sensitized to 8 - aminoadenosine under glucose - limiting conditions .
Both STX243 and STX140 were capable of retarding the growth of MDA - MB - 231 xenograft tumours ( 72 and 63 % , respectively ) , whereas no inhibition was observed for animals treated with 2 - MeOE2 .
RESULTS : AQP1 , 3 - 5 , and 10 - 12 were expressed in human breast cancer and / or normal breast tissues , and AQP1 and 3 - 5 exhibited differential expression .
To test this we generated Nestin - Bmi - 1 - GFP transgenic mice .
Overexpression of JNK1 or p38 was sufficient to induce HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression .
Serum VEGF protein levels were upregulated in stage III .
Via this binding , nicked beta2GPI attenuates the antiangiogenic functions of AS4 . 5 in the proliferation of arterial / venous endothelial cells , in the extracellular matrix invasion and the tube formation of venous endothelial cells , and in vivo angiogenesis .
The rats were divided into 4 groups .
Prognostic value of angiogenesis in operable non - small cell lung cancer .
We found that the mean tumor volumes and weights were statistically significantly less in mice treated with galectin - 3C compared with control mice , and that fewer numbers of mice exhibited lymph node metastases in the treated group compared with the control group .
During 8 days of culture under 5 % O ( 2 ) , but not room air , the addition of FGF2 to explants stimulated the formation of Gs - IB ( 4 - ) positive , CD31 - positive , and Flk - 1 - positive microvessels in a concentration - dependent manner .
Statistically significant relationship between p53 expression in primary oral cancers and its expression in lymph node metastases ( P < 0 . 02 ) as well as increased expression of Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 in metastatic sites compared with primary tumors could indicate an association of these proteins with oral cancer progression and development of metastases .
These results suggest that the tumor - bearing animal , even prior to significant cachexia , has an excess demand for energy , the provision of which may be a significant factor in malignant cachexia .
Reconstitution of MCF - 7 cells by stable transfection of CASP - 3 cDNA restores all these defects and results in an extensive apoptosis after cisplatin treatment .
The angiogenic potency of adipose tissue was not related to its localization ( with an angiogenic stimulation in 60 % of SAT samples and 61 % of VAT samples ) or to adipocyte size or inflammatory infiltrate assessed in adipose samples before the graft on CAM .
The cells on 15 - microm wide strips completely aligned in the direction of the strip , and had significantly lower shape index than those in all other groups .
Little difference was observed in their transforming efficiency ( 0 . 2 - 0 . 3 transformants / micrograms DNA ) between the combinations of oncogenes applied but a tendency was noted that cells transfected with ras or src in combination with myc developed the capacity to grow for a longer period and differentiated at a later stage than those transfected solely with ras or src .
However , the molecular mechanism of these effects is not understood .
In a multivariate analysis D2 - 40 + was the strongest predictor for ALNM with an odds ratio of 3 . 489 and a P - value of P = 0 . 0003 , followed only by T - stage and grading with odds ratios of 3 . 167 and 1 . 953 and P - values P = 0 . 0003 and P = 0 . 0352 .
Normal and transforming functions of RUNX1 : a perspective .
alpha - MSH alone had little effect , whereas coincubation with IL - 1 beta led to marked downregulation of IL - 8 secretion ( at most 288 + / - 152 ng / mL ) when compared to treatment with IL - 1 beta alone ( 919 + / - 157 ng / mL ) .
These RNAs were not detected by Northern ( RNA ) hybridization in productively infected chicken embryo fibroblasts 48 h postinfection ; however , they were apparent 140 h postinfection .
RESULTS : No correlation was found between tumor prognosis and EGFR , ICAM - 1 or Fas .
They also antagonised the effects of both thrombin and SFLLR on MMP - 2 activation .
Lesion composition also appears to influence visual outcome with verteporfin use .
RESULTS : The mean sVAP - 1 level for cancer patients was significantly higher relative to controls , and decreased with disease progression .
Our data suggest that the lower blood vessel density found in the patients with 1 mm / day distraction rate may be related to disruption of angiogenesis in the soft connective tissue of the gap or to a less optimal mechanical stimulation of cells involved in angiogenesis .
METHODS : We assessed antiapoptotic and proapoptotic markers in vascular and perivascular cells in lung biopsy samples from 18 patients with CHD , 7 with reversible and 11 with irreversible PHT , and 6 control patients .
Recently , there is an increasing number of patents which have been focused on the inhibitors of VEGF action .
Involvement of PTEN promoter methylation in cerebral cavernous malformations .
Given that AR - mediated gene regulation is enhanced by AR coregulators , inactivation of those coregulators is emerging as a promising therapy for prostate cancer ( PCa ) .
Macrophages are essential mediators of inflammation and wound healing .
BACKGROUND : The management of hormone - refractory prostate cancer ( HRPC ) still remains as an important challenge of daily oncology practice .
Brn - 3a , a neuronal transcription factor of the POU gene family : indications for its involvement in cancer and angiogenesis .
Recent advances in stem cell biology added the new concept that cancer originates from a single cancer - initiating cell .
LMP1 of Epstein - Barr virus induces proliferation of primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts and cooperatively transforms the cells with a p16 - insensitive CDK4 oncogene .
Angiogenic activity in samples of patients from the control group was generally inhibitory due to PEDF , and inhibition was blocked by neutralizing antibodies to PEDF .
The eph gene encodes a putative receptor tyrosine kinase for an as yet unknown ligand .
These results suggest that SWAP - 70 may be required for oncogenic transformation and contributes to cell growth in MEFs transformed by v - Src .
In vitro studies , the results indicated that DATS induced morphological changes and induction of apoptosis in CT26 cells .
hTERT activity is associated with nodal metastases and cellular proliferation .
The goals of this study were to determine the mRNA and protein expressions of KISS1 and MMP - 9 in NSCLC and their relations to metastasis and prognosis .
Immunocytochemistry revealed that endosialin was present in the cytoplasmic body and in the elongated extensions essential to pericyte function .
Here , we report a tumorigenic role of TLX in brain tumor initiation and progression .
At the cellular level many actions of thrombin can contribute to activation of angiogenesis : ( 1 ) .
CONCLUSION : These results demonstrated that cRGD - modified heparin derivative enhanced anti - angiotherapeutic effects against solid tumor , and therefore , it could be applied to treat various cancers and angiogenic diseases as a potent angiogenesis inhibitor .
Sanguinarine induces apoptosis of human osteosarcoma cells through the extrinsic and intrinsic pathways .
Affymetrix - microarray analysis was performed using T47D cells over - expressing RASSF1C to identify RASSF1C target genes .
Transformation of mammary epithelial cells ( MECs ) from the normal to the neoplastic stage requires the dysregulation of tumor suppressor genes and proto - oncogenes .
RESULTS : The positive c - kit protein expression and c - kit gene mutation rates were 97 . 6 % ( 80 / 82 ) and 41 . 5 % ( 34 / 82 ) .
Scrutiny of diagnostic indicators for verteporfin administration , including critical angiographic evaluation of lesion size and visual acuity , is essential to treatment success .
These results indicate that the INK4B locus , similarly to INK4A - ARF , harbors two different splicing variants that can be involved in the regulation of both the p53 and retinoblastoma pathways , the two major molecular pathways in tumor suppression .
These data show that disrupting cytostructure activates the angiogenic switch even in the absence of proliferation and / or hypoxia and restoring organization of malignant clusters reduces VEGF expression and EC activation to levels found in quiescent nonmalignant epithelium .
Treatment was discontinued at patient request or if there was no measurable response to therapy .
Aflibercept ( AVE0005 ) : an alternative strategy for inhibiting tumour angiogenesis by vascular endothelial growth factors .
Functional studies by ectopically constitutive expression of Dss1 in JB6 Cl 41 - 5a preneoplastic cells strongly increased focus formation and proliferation of these cells and enhanced efficiency of neoplastic transformation of the cells in soft agar .
In contrast , administration of the NAD ( P ) H oxidase inhibitor apocynin had no effect to the proliferative response to 20 - HETE .
We conclude that stimulation of a putative growth factor signal pathway , associated with ras - induced proliferation , transiently suppresses the induction of transcription factors functionally involved in cell growth and differentiation .
Importantly , Bax and Bak were rapidly translocated to the mitochondria 30 min after betulin treatment .
Angioinvasion , in contrast , was present only in a proportion ( 37 % ) of these lymphomas despite the frequent presence of zonal tumor cell death ( 71 % ) .
Randomised placebo controlled trials have shown that the phosphodiesterase III inhibitor cilostazol 100mg bid improves pain - free and maximum walking distance , as well as quality of life , in a range of patients with intermittent claudication in whom there is no evidence of tissue necrosis or rest pain .
When transplanted in nude mice , tumors formed by the v - Src transformed SWAP - 70 ( - / - ) MEFs were smaller than those formed by cells expressing exogenous SWAP - 70 .
The aim of this study was the assessment of correlations among proteins involved in apoptosis - Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 - as well as relationships of these proteins with selected clinicopathological features in oral squamous cell carcinoma .
Combination therapy was more effective , and completely eliminated tumor in 4 of 12 IFN - GM - CSF and 8 of 11 IFN - IL - 2 animals .
Arterial pressure and cardiac output were unchanged .
With HL60 cells loss of the 55 kDa Glut - 1 band was observed and a band of 45 kDa appeared .
In contrast , none of the patients with JEB had elevated levels of bFGF .
Slight variations are caused by drug treatment in tumor - bearing mice as compared with untreated tumor - bearing controls ; the pattern of effects of the selective antimetastatic agents does not differ from that of the reference cytotoxic compound used , cyclophosphamide .
In the present study we examined the possibility that the revertant phenotype resulted from mutations that altered the expression or activities of the c - jun or junB proto - oncogenes .
A role for NF - kappaB in cancer cells appears to involve regulation of cell proliferation , control of apoptosis , promotion of angiogenesis , and stimulation of invasion / metastasis .
Here we report that CCL16 activates an angiogenic program in vascular endothelial cells by activating CCR1 .
The purpose of this study was to determine whether upregulation of PTEN gene by transfection wild - type PTEN gene to ovarian cancer cells can inhibit growth and migration and to explore the potential for PTEN gene therapy of ovarian cancers .
In vitro studies also suggest progesterone may play a role in modulating inflammation .
Analysis of associations among studied proteins revealed positive correlation between Bcl - xL and Bax in primary tumors ( P < 0 . 03 , r = 0 . 307 ) .
CONCLUSION : The Fas - FasL - mediated apoptosis pathway may contribute to the IL - 12 - induced rejection of prostate carcinoma .
Mechanisms of pericyte recruitment in tumour angiogenesis : a new role for metalloproteinases .
The data suggest that various metastasis profiles exist .
In this study , we have examined the ability of the purine analogue 8 - aminoadenosine to acutely reduce glucose consumption by regulating localization and expression of key glucose transporters .
These data highlight the importance of a balanced proteolysis and suggest an additional role for PAI - 1 distinct from its role in proteolysis .
Knowledge of radiopathological correlations in breast diseases helps the radiologists to analyze and characterize breast lesions .
CD154 , but not CD40 expression , significantly correlated with tumor stage .
CONCLUSION : Osteopontin siRNA can inhibit U251 cells invasion via the down - regulation of uPA , MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 levels , and promote apoptosis through induction of Bax expression and inhibition of Bcl 2 level .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is known to be operative in the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy .
The role of SWAP - 70 in oncogenic transformation of mouse embryo fibroblasts ( MEFs ) by v - Src was examined by use of MEFs defective in SWAP - 70 .
VEGF and COL - IV levels were found to be significantly higher for pattern A ( 110 mus pulse width ) compared to pattern B ( 5 mus pulse width ) at 14 days , implying that pattern A may be more effective at promoting angiogenesis .
ARD1 is up - regulated in human PCa cell lines and primary tumor biopsies .
Statistical analysis is performed and P < 0 . 05 considered significant .
We previously characterized a secreted fibroblast growth factor - binding protein ( FGF - BP ) as a chaperone molecule , which binds to various FGFs , enhances FGF - mediated biochemical and biologic events and importantly is a crucial rate - limiting factor for tumor - dependent angiogenesis .
Collectively , these data suggest that the DSCR1s promoter directs vascular bed - specific expression in activated endothelium and that DSCR - 1s serves to dampen the host response to infection .
As chicken embryo fibroblasts are devoid of EGF receptors , their activity is not potentiated by EGF .
These results suggest that in leukemic cells N - glycosylation of Glut - 1 plays an important role in maintaining its structure and functional integration .
Excessive vascular development and blood vessel remodeling appears in psoriasis , rheumatoid arthritis , diabetic retinopathy and solid tumors formation .
PURPOSE : The aim of this study was to investigate the use of D2 - 40 for the detection of lymphovascular invasion ( LVI ) in node positive and negative early breast cancer .
Further , the overexpression of 14 - 3 - 3zeta correlated with histological grades , lymph node metastasis and poor clinical outcome .
In the current article we demonstrate that TnI inhibits both bFGF - stimulated and basal levels of endothelial cell proliferation , and we hypothesize that this inhibition is occurring , at least in part , via an interaction of TnI with the cell - surface bFGF receptor on capillary endothelial cells .
The transformed cells were cloned after in vivo tumorigenic assay , and 4 clones were analyzed for osteonectin expression by Northern blots .
CK1delta mutants exhibited a reduced kinase activity compared to wtCK1delta in in vitro kinase assays .
Two of 12 cell lines formed xenografts in mice .
Here , HGF stimulation of melanocytes was seen to up - regulate c - Met expression .
The Down syndrome critical region gene 1 short variant promoters direct vascular bed - specific gene expression during inflammation in mice .
No effective medical therapies have been developed sofar to enhance blood flow in the legs of patients with peripheral arterial disease ( PAD ) .
Lactate and pyruvate , the end products of glycolysis , are highly produced by cancer cells even in the presence of oxygen .
One of the clones ( clone 1510 ) contained the gene encoding latent membrane protein ( LMP ) .
Microvessel density ( MVD ) was assessed in order to evaluate angiogenesis of autogenous bone grafts .
These results support the clinical findings and indicate that modulation of PAI - 1 activity may be of therapeutic benefit for the treatment of cancer .
However many human carcinomas overexpress TGFbeta1 and this is associated with poor patient prognosis and increased frequency of metastasis .
Mutations in colonic adenomas , and the frequent losses on 4q described in gastric cancer prompt speculation about the role of CDC4 / FBXW7 in gastric carcinogenesis .
A preponderance of work has been focused on the molecular mechanisms underlying this effect , with the expectation that a mechanistic understanding may lead to novel therapeutic approaches .
Constitutively nuclear FOXO3a localization predicts poor survival and promotes Akt phosphorylation in breast cancer .
In the aqueous fluid , VEGF levels were increased in diabetics ( mean values : 501 vs . 367 pg / ml ; p = 0 . 05 ) , compared to controls .
Altogether , these results suggest that the glycolytic pathway may be an important target for therapeutic intervention to sensitize tumor cells to selectively toxic soluble death ligands or death ligand - expressing cells of the immune system by facilitating the activation of initiator caspase - 8 .
One possibility is that the gross chromosomal alterations frequently observed in HCC DNA at the site of HBV integration may alter the expression of important nearby cellular genes .
Angiogenesis in platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule - 1 - null mice .
Little , however , is known about the inhibitory mechanisms .
Combination therapy targets both lymphocytes and macrophages , and is more effective in reducing tumor than either therapy alone .
Through this domain , Evi - 1 physically interacts with Smad3 , an intracellular mediator of TGF - beta signaling , thereby suppressing the transcriptional activity of Smad3 .
In addition , we found an increase of angiogenesis and HIF - 1alpha expression in TB4 - transgenic ( Tg ) mice as compared to wildtype mice .
We have shown that Arf6 and its effector AMAP1 ( DDEF1 , DEF1 , ASAP1 and centaurin beta4 ) are abnormally overexpressed in some breast cancers and used for their invasion and metastasis .
Furthermore , GK rats were treated s . c twice daily with IL - 1Ra ( Kineret , Amgen , 100 mg / kg / day ) or saline , from 4 weeks of age onwards ( onset of diabetes ) .
These observations , combined with new molecular insights with HIF - 1alpha and c - myc , have rekindled an interest in this important phenotype .
MMP - 2 is involved in the early steps of angiogenesis leading to local dissolution of basement membrane collagen and migration of the activated endothelial cells .
[ 13C ] Lactate production from [ 13C ] glucose , with no detectable uptake of [ 13C ] alanine , indicated that energy production in H5 spheroids was primarily via glycolysis .
Topoisomerase I ( topo I ) is an important target for the treatment of malignant disease , especially colorectal cancer .
Suppression of PIM - 1 activity had a negligible effect on transformation .
Some vitamins like beta - carotene , retinoic acid , alpha - tocopheryl succinate , and vitamin D also regulate the expressions of certain oncogenes and cellular genes .
To maintain an elevated glycolytic rate , cancerous or proliferating cells alter the expression pattern of rate limiting glycolytic enzymes .
A multitude of VEGF - targeted inhibitory agents are currently being investigated for the treatment of cancer .
BACKGROUND : We suggest that surgical extirpation of primary breast cancer among other effects accelerates relapse for some premenopausal node - positive patients .
Molecular requirements for epithelial - mesenchymal transition during tumor progression .
Oxygen consumption of HepG2 cells supported by either pyruvate / malate or succinate was inhibited when cells were pre - incubated with 3 - BrPA in glucose - free medium .
Significant differences were found between the control and experimental fat pads with regard to weight and length .
However , there is no report to show that DATS induced apoptosis in vitro and inhibited CT26 cancer cells in vivo on a murine allograft animal model .
RT - PCR and western blot techniques were used to validate target gene expression .
FOXO3a is a transcription factor that elicits a protective response to diverse cellular stresses .
Thus , we show that deregulation of CDK expression in the primitive oral epithelium plays a unique function , providing a selective advantage that gives rise to transgene - positive TA - like pituitary cells .
We did not found any mutation in de novo BCR - ABL + ALLs or lymphoid BC CML .
Furthermore , we found a significant association between tumour location , tumour grade and node status and the methylation status of the APC gene ( p < = 0 . 05 ) .
In both of the other two cases , the patterns of X - chromosome inactivation clearly demonstrated the presence of independent primary tumors .
We show examples in which p53 gene induction by IFN - alpha / beta contributes to tumour suppression .
[ Intraepithelial neoplasm of the uterine cervix and angiogenesis : morphologic study ]
The protein expression was determined by Western blot analysis .
In vivo , cediranib ( 6 mg / kg / d ) prevented angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis induced by VEGF - E - expressing and VEGF - C156S - expressing adenoviruses , respectively .
Non - invasive grading of primary brain tumours : results of a comparative study between SPET with 123I - alpha - methyl tyrosine and PET with 18F - deoxyglucose .
Activated Hck and membrane - anchored Cbl are present in similar subcellular localizations and co - immunoprecipitate , suggesting that their interaction is required for subsequent ubiquitination and degradation .
CONCLUSIONS : The results suggest that annexin II and beta ( 2 ) - tubulin down - regulation is important in NPC formation and may represent potential targets for further investigations .
Single conditional knockouts for Smad1 or Smad5 or mice homozygous null for Smad8 are viable and fertile .
Antiprogestin RU - 486 inhibits the induction of VEGF and TSP - 1 by progestins , suggesting that this effect of progestin is mediated by the progesterone receptor ( PR ) .
In synchronized cultures at the beginning of the mitotic cycle , the bulk of ATP resynthesized via glycolysis is utilized for the synthesis of biopolymers , whereas that at the end of the S - phase and in the G2 - phase is utilized for cation transport across plasma membranes .
Angiogenesis in the caprine caruncles in non - pregnant and pregnant normal and swainsonine - treated does .
Coffee is a leading source of methylxanthines , such as caffeine .
AID deaminates cytidines in DNA resulting in U : G mismatches that are processed into point mutations in SHM or double - strand breaks in CSR .
H - ras mutations in human pituitary carcinoma metastases .
CONCLUSIONS : The combination of bevacizumab and irinotecan is safe and has excellent activity even in this relapsed , heavily pretreated population of patients with high - grade malignant glioma , most of whom would not be candidates for clinical trials .
NO is synthesized through three isoforms of NO synthase ( NOS ) .
[ Ambiguity role of neutrophils in oncogenesis ]
To examine the mechanism by which ethanol influences angiogenesis in wounds , we employed two different in vitro angiogenesis assays to determine whether acute ethanol exposure ( 100 mg / dl ) would have long - lasting effects on VEGF - induced capillary network formation .
AQP4 was expressed in the cell membrane and cytoplasm and was detected markedly stronger in normal than in cancer tissues .
Prostate - specific membrane antigen regulates angiogenesis by modulating integrin signal transduction .
Furthermore , the conditioned medium from these cells enhanced vascular permeability in vivo .
Under similar conditions , both uninfected HUVECs and HUVECs infected with AdCMV . beta gal did not differentiate .
Transfection of SiHa cervical cancer cells with a plasmid expressing the TSP - 1 protein exhibited antiangiogenic activity in vitro and resulted in reduced tumor growth in severe combined immunodeficiency ( SCID ) mice , which was accompanied by a decrease in tumor vascularization and lower expressions of alpha - SMA and desmin than those in the vector controls .
TB4 expression in B16F10 cells was increased by hypoxia conditioning in a time - dependent manner .
Angiogenesis depends on growth factors and vascular cell adhesion events .
Conversely , inducible over - expression of RASSF1C in breast cancer cells ( MDA - MB231 and T47D ) resulted in a small increase in cell proliferation .
Cancer neoangiogenesis is often disordered and abnormal , with evidence of coexisting vascular endothelial dysfunction .
A long - lived line , RSVT - 2 , was produced and an immortalized subclone , RSVT2 / C , was further derived under a forced crisis regimen .
Furthermore , transient transfection studies with NIH3T3 cells indicated that the expression of activated Galpha ( 12 ) readily increased the expression of SET protein by 24 h .
This in vitro transformation process involves multiple steps : slow - growing ' pre - neoplastic ' epithelial foci are induced 70 - 100 days after MNU treatment and from such foci rapidly proliferating immortal cell lines were established , some of which became tumorigenic after a further latent period .
Role of thrombin in angiogenesis and tumor progression .
These results also suggest therapeutic implications concerning Wnt signaling inhibitors .
Positron emission tomography ( PET ) imaging has become a useful tool for assessing early biologic response to cancer therapy and may be particularly useful in the development of new cancer therapeutics .
In contrast , cancer cells depend mostly on glycolysis , the aerobic breakdown of glucose into ATP .
Platelets release several growth factors and bioactive agents that play a central role in development of not only thrombus but also of intimal thickening .
The leukemia cell lines K562 and HL - 60 had no detectable TGF - beta RII mRNA .
The polyester prostheses utilized were polyester flat ( PF ) and polyester soft three - dimensional ( PS ) ; the PP mesh utilized was Marlex .
The p53 - dependent and p - 53 - independent functions of this protein are under many studies .
Activation of the myc gene may play a role in transformation by promoting growth of the cells bearing the rearranged chromosomes .
To identify a suitable donor cell population for gene therapy applications to the central nervous system , primary fibroblasts isolated from skin biopsies and maintained in culture are employed as autologous cells for intracerebral grafting within the adult rat striatum .
We have established a model system to detect the presence of ras p21 in the sera of Balb / c mice carrying tumors induced by a mouse cell line transformed with the Harvey murine sarcoma virus in the presence of a helper Friend murine leukemia virus .
Differential mechanisms of radiosensitization by 2 - deoxy - D - glucose in the monolayers and multicellular spheroids of a human glioma cell line .
Immunodetection was performed with a specific anti - bFGF mouse monoclonal antibody that was found to react with recombinant human bFGF in Western blot analysis , and to specifically neutralize the mitogenic activity of bFGF on bovine vascular endothelial cells .
Injection of AdCA5 into mouse eyes induced neovascularization in multiple capillary beds , including those not responsive to VEGF alone .
To further analyze RhoA function in thyroid cell proliferation and differentiation patterns , we combined transient and stable transfection assays to express different mutant RhoA forms in FRTL - 5 cells .
This compound inhibits cellular ATP production owing to its action on glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation ; however , the specific metabolic steps and mechanisms of 3 - BrPA action in human hepatocellular carcinomas , particularly its effects on mitochondrial energetics , are poorly understood .
Convergence of p53 and TGF - beta signaling networks .
A 4 . 0 kb mRNA of the murine UFO homolog is expressed in a variety of different mouse tissues .
Our current data suggest that gamma rays worked as an initiator of carcinogenesis in normal human cells , giving rise to chromosome aberrations and immortality , and the Ha - ras oncogene played a role in the progression of the immortally transformed cell population to a neoplastic one showing enhanced colony formation in soft agar and tumorigenicity in nude mice .
Increased numbers of mast cells have been associated with several types of angiogenesis .
The aim of this study was to investigate the molecular pathway of the cytotoxic effect of paclitaxel in human cervical cancer cell lines .
Matrix metalloproteinase - 2 staining was observed exclusively in fibroblasts , reaching maximum levels 8 - 12 weeks after surgery , decreasing by 1 . 5 years but remaining significantly increased .
There was a significant correlation between eye appraisal and Chalkley counting ( P less than 0 . 0001 ) .
Both PLD1 - and PLD2 - mediated cell cycle distributions in stable cell lines revealed an increased fraction of cells in the S phase compared with control cells .
It suggests that altered PTEN gene contributes to tumorigenesis and progression of gastric carcinomas .
Desensitization could be induced in NIH - 3T3 cells by culturing under conditions where the cells were all in the exponential growth phase , or by a 12 h exposure to a C - kinase - activating phorbol ester .
These new insights into the involvement of syndecans in disease and tissue repair coupled with the emergence of syndecan - specific molecular tools may lead to novel therapies for a variety of human diseases .
It is concluded that primary skin fibroblasts are able to survive for at least 8 weeks following intracerebral implantation and continue to synthesize collagen and fibronectin in vivo .
Group 1 animals had the left buccal pouches painted three times weekly with 7 , 12 - dimethylbenz ( a ) anthracene ( DMBA ) for 14 weeks .
Protein up - regulation of HER2 in the epithelium with metaplasia or carcinoma in situ was not accompanied by HER2 gene amplification .
Similarly to mouse p15 ( INK4B ) , p10 expression is also induced by oncogenic insults and transforming growth factor - beta treatment and acts as a cell cycle inhibitor .
Cancer cells display high rates of aerobic glycolysis , a phenomenon known historically as the Warburg effect .
These effects of alpha - MSH may have important regulatory functions in extracellular matrix composition , wound healing , or angiogenesis .
These data support a new model for how tumor cells trigger metastasis by perturbing pericyte - endothelial cell - cell interactions .
We performed comparative proteomic and pathway analysis of four human metastatic HCC cell lines to identify metastasis - associated proteins .
Microvascular density and vascular endothelial growth factor immunoreactivity as predictors of regional lymph node metastasis from betel - associated oral squamous cell carcinoma .
Cells stably transformed by the Src oncogene tyrosine kinase were examined for STAT protein activation .
Alterations in carbohydrate metabolism in canine lymphoma .
Furthermore , suppression of NF - kappaB activation decreased the transcript levels and BMP - 2 - induced phosphorylation of Smad1 / 5 / 8 , critical downstream targets of BMP - 2 signaling in PC cells .
Bilateral central lymphadenectomy was performed in all patients in addition to thyroidectomy .
1 - Tetradecylpyrrolidine N - oxide ( TPNO ) , one of the most active compounds , immediately after addition to the suspension of Ehrlich cells in an ice bath , decreased the level of ATP to the same extent over the whole concentration range .
We attempted to correlate the expression of human leukocyte antigen DR ( HLA - DR ) and tumor infiltration by S - 100 - protein - positive dendritic cells with clinicopathologic features in 165 patients with gastric cancer .
The B ( 1 ) R appeared either as cytoplasmic dots or labeling on the apical cell membrane of the cells composing the epithelia with intestinal metaplasia ( 24 / 24 ; 100 % ) and carcinoma in situ ( 10 / 10 ; 100 % ) and in the epithelial cells of adenomas .
These data suggest that increases in endothelial cell migration and plasminogen activator after angiotensin system inhibition are at least partially pp60c - src mediated .
We hypothesized that the hemolysis induced by 2 - BE would result in local tissue hypoxia , a well - documented trigger for endothelial cell proliferation leading to hemangiosarcoma .
Laminin - 332 is critical for squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) tumorigenesis , but targeting it for cancer therapy has been unachievable due to key role of laminin - 332 in promoting tissue integrity .
The importance of NO in the vasculature is demonstrated by several experimental conditions , such as vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) - induced angiogenesis .
METHOD : Dideoxy sequencing and fluorescent single strand conformation analysis were used to screen for mutations in exon 15 of BRAF in 183 cases of metastatic melanoma .
TNFalpha is an important inflammation cytokine and is crucial to the development of inflammation - associated cancers .
Lymphoma prevalence was minimal in the T lineage but significant , although low ( 3 - 15 % ) , in the B lineage .
Clinically , elderly patients are more vulnerable to acute myocardial infarction ( AMI ) .
Cancer cells secrete soluble factors which can induce proliferation and migration of capillary endothelial cells .
To evaluate the ability of AdCMV . VEGF165 to function in vivo , either AdCMV .
Prognostic value of p53 protein expression and vascular endothelial growth factor expression in resected squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus .
Together , our data define caspase - 3 as an important integrator of the apoptotic process in MCF - 7 breast cancer cells and reveal an essential function of caspase - 3 for procaspase - 9 processing .
The sequential activation of caspase - 9 and caspase - 3 / - 7 and the cleavage of poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase ( PARP ) were observed behind those mitochondrial events .
These results suggest that L - Car , possibly via its free radical scavenging and antioxidant properties , ameliorates MTX - induced oxidative organ injury and inhibits leukocyte apoptosis .
When 10 ( 5 ) cells were injected i . v . , median colony value was 55 and 20 in higher expressor vs . lower expressor respectively ( p less than 0 . 005 ) .
All wounds were fully re - epithelialized by 10 days post - injury .
Furthermore , cyclopamine reduced tumor blood vessel permeability to FITC labeled dextran while having no effect on normal blood vessels .
We verified this finding by Northern blot analysis .
Mitochondrial complex II , or succinate dehydrogenase , is a key enzymatic complex involved in both the tricarboxylic acid ( TCA ) cycle and oxidative phosphorylation as part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain .
This may explain why some patients remain without symptoms or signs of ischemia .
Furthermore , Cox regression analysis showed that CYR61 and CTGF expression had a significant correlation with patient survival .
Typically , proliferation and chemotaxis of endothelial cells is driven by growth factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) .
Cyclooxygenase - 2 ( COX - 2 ) inhibitors are anti - inflammatory agents , which have potent anti - inflammatory , anti - angiogenic and analgesic properties yet do not affect platelet function in the manner of traditional non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs .
Binding of factor VIIa ( FVIIa ) to its cellular receptor tissue factor ( TF ) was previously shown to induce various intracellular signaling events , which were thought to be responsible for TF - mediated biologic effects , including angiogenesis , tumor metastasis , and restenosis .
By transcriptional activation and other means , p53 is able to contribute to the regulation of glycolysis , oxidative phosphorylation , glutaminolysis , insulin sensitivity , nucleotide biosynthesis , mitochondrial integrity , fatty acid oxidation , antioxidant response , autophagy and mTOR signalling .
Multi - step neoplastic transformation of normal human fibroblasts by Co - 60 gamma rays and Ha - ras oncogenes .
Instead , regulation occurred at the mRNA level .
There was a significant correlation ( P = 0 . 022 ) between survivin and bcl - x expression ; survivin and bcl - x tended to correlate with overall survival ( P = 0 . 072 and 0 . 075 , respectively ) , but not with disease - free survival ( P = 0 . 19 and 0 . 18 , respectively ) .
The serum level of CEA was reduced from 172 . 7 ng / ml to 8 . 1 ng / ml after TS - 1 treatment .
The purpose of the present study was to measure the MVD and VEGF expression in a cohort of patients with betel - associated OSCC and to evaluate for possible clinicopathologic correlations .
Hox 1 . 4 and Hox 1 . 3 , genes abundantly induced in nontransformed clones after 3 days of RA treatment , are expressed in N - ras - transformed cells only after 10 days of RA treatment .
It was demonstrated that ovarian tumor tissue lysates and ovarian cancer cell lines express hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 .
A standardized surgical procedure incorporated a hybrid stimulation system comprising an implantable mini - stimulator and surface electrodes , with creation of repeatable ischemic wounds .
Immunotargeting using an anti - IGF - IR neutralizing antibody on human fetal lung explants demonstrated a significant blockade of IGF - IR signaling .
VEGF and p53 expressions were observed in 40 % and 53 % of the tumors , respectively .
Our results indicate that HCMV elevates cellular p53 levels on the order of 10 - to 20 - fold in infected fibroblasts .
Saline , thrombin solution , PPP , and PRP were applied to the created defects before closure .
In the present study , we investigated in vivo the regulation of leukocyte - vessel wall interactions by the presence of a tumor .
Since Akt phosphorylates Chk1 - Ser ( 280 ) , the effect of Erbb2 on phosphatidyl inositol - 3 - kinase ( PI3K ) / Akt signaling during UV - induced cell cycle arrest was determined .
For detecting the mechanism of apoptosis induced by docetaxel - ATRA combination , OligoGeArray which consists of 112 apoptosis related genes was used .
Main outcome measures included best corrected visual acuity , ophthalmic examination , retinal photography , and angiography .
OBJECTIVE : To determine the expression and clinical significance of Merlin protein in non - small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) .
Taken together , these results show for the first time that active RhoA is able to transform FRTL - 5 cells and that this effect is coupled to a loss of thyroid differentiation due to impaired TTF - 1 activity .
Patient charts were reviewed for visual acuity of the treated eye before PDT and at 6 - and 12 - month follow - up examinations .
These events are associated with a short survival and support the concept of a cooperative effect of BCR - ABL with molecular RUNX1 abnormalities on the differentiation arrest phenotype observed during progression of CML and in BCR - ABL + ALL .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is a naturally secreted endothelial cell - specific mitogen .
The transforming growth factor beta ( TGFbeta ) family has critical roles in the regulation of fertility .
Interestingly , in CaSki cells , which were more suggestive of a resistant phenotype , paclitaxel induced the activation of mTOR as a downstream target of Akt .
Therefore , the phenotypic traits of the miR - BHRF1 - 2 null mutant could result partly from reduced miR - BHRF1 - 1 and miR - BHRF1 - 3 expression levels .
OBJECTIVE : The expansion of adipose tissue is linked to the development of its vasculature .
Additional cofactors and mutational events may be important in the pathogenesis of invasive cervical cancers and may include chromosomal rearrangements , loss of constitutional heterozygosity , and proto - oncogene activation .
A uniform left ventricular injury was produced in female rats using a cryoprobe .
In CX3CR1 - deficient mice , MCs accumulated subretinally with age and albino background and after laser impact preceding retinal degeneration .
Methotrexate ( MTX ) , a folic acid antagonist widely used for the treatment of a variety of tumors and inflammatory diseases , affects normal tissues that have a high rate of proliferation , including the hematopoietic cells of the bone marrow and the gastrointestinal mucosal cells .
PURPOSE : Clinical studies have demonstrated that intensive insulin therapy causes a transient worsening of retinopathy .
The various complex interactions of TP give it an essential role in cellular functioning and , hence , it is an ideal target in cancer therapy .
The efficacy of the approach may be critically dependent on the intrinsic susceptibility to apoptosis of different tumors .
Cyclin D1 / bcl - 1 cooperates with myc genes in the generation of B - cell lymphoma in transgenic mice .
The present study evaluated the effect of cumene hydroperoxide ( Cum - OOH ) on the induction of activator protein - 1 ( AP - 1 ) , which is linked to the expression of genes regulating cell proliferation , growth and transformation .
A two sided correlation between the expression of TKTL1 and LDH5 could be shown ( p = 0 . 002 ) within the overall cohort as well as for each grading and pN group .
One of the most common signatures of highly malignant tumors is their capacity to metabolize more glucose to lactic acid than their tissues of origin .
Roles of cell adhesion molecules in tumor angiogenesis induced by cotransplantation of cancer and endothelial cells to nude rats .
Viability , measured by the activity of mitochondrial dehydrogenases , was reduced significantly in the cells treated with Sim at 50 and 100 microM for 24 hours ( p < 0 . 005 ) .
A diagnosis of advanced gastric cancer with extensive lymph node metastases and multiple pulmonary metastases was made .
Results were compared to findings in a control group .
L - Carnitine ameliorates methotrexate - induced oxidative organ injury and inhibits leukocyte death .
Activation of MybER both prevented the growth arrest induced by interleukin - 6 ( IL - 6 ) and rapidly restored c - myc expression in nearly terminal differentiated cells that had been exposed to IL - 6 for 3 days .
Rab GTPase regulation of VEGFR2 trafficking and signaling in endothelial cells .
Functional studies showed that Sema7A stimulates cytoskeletal reorganization in human melanocytes , resulting in adhesion and dendrite formation .
Median overall and progression - free survivals are 14 . 4 and 4 . 7 months , respectively .
It was thought that potent antiangiogenic effect of cRGD - HL was probably due to the interference of alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) - mediated interaction , resulting in the enhanced antitumoral activity against SCC7 tumor .
RESULTS : Using the D2 - 40 antibody for immunostaining , our results demonstrate a significant higher detection ( P < 0 . 001 ) of LVI as compared with routine H . E . - staining in early breast cancer .
Many cellular and biochemical effects of curcumin in mouse fibroblast cells have been reported , such as inhibition of protein kinase C ( PKC ) activity induced by phorbol 12 - myristate 13 - acetate treatment , inhibition of tyrosine protein kinase activity , and inhibition of arachidonic acid ( AA ) metabolism .
PEDF was found to be decreased in diabetics ( mean values : 2080 vs . 5780 ng / ml ; p = 0 . 04 ) compared to controls .
Increased urokinase plasminogen activator ( uPA ) levels are increased in a number of malignancies and have been correlated with decreased disease - free interval and decreased overall survival .
New bone formation was detected to be more rapid considering histologic parameters , in groups 3 and 4 at 4th and 16th weeks . Study demonstrates that PRP and PPP might have favorable effects on bone healing .
In transgenic embryos , RPE cells proliferated in the anterior part of the eye and near the optic nerve .
Phosphatase and tension homolog deleted on chromosome 10 ( PTEN ) , a tumor suppressor , is frequently deficient in various pathologies due to mutation or epigenetic alterations .
In this study , we demonstrate that SPARC inhibits human arterial smooth muscle cell proliferation stimulated by platelet - derived growth factor or by adhesion to monomeric type I collagen .
Using vitamin K in perioperation management did not reduce intraoperative blood loss .
The activation of Na + transport is due to the exchange of protons formed via glucose conversion into lactate for Na + , i . e . , to the stimulation of the Na + / H + - antiport .
Indeed , adjuvant tamoxifen significantly prolonged DFS and OAS in c - erbB2 - negative cases , whereas it had no effect on DFS and OAS in c - erbB2 - positive patients .
Contemporary perspectives on vital pulp therapy : views from the endodontists and pediatric dentists .
L - deoxyribose ( L - dR ) and thymidine phosphorylase inhibitor ( TPI ) can reverse these effects .
We also demonstrate direct interaction of Egr - 1 with Id - 1 promoter in vitro and in cell culture .
METHODOLOGY AND RESULTS : In this study , we demonstrate the molecular mechanism of M - CSF - induced VEGF production .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , a recently identified growth factor with significant angiogenic properties , may be a major tumor angiogenesis regulator .
Adaptor protein Crk is required for ephrin - B1 - induced membrane ruffling and focal complex assembly of human aortic endothelial cells .
Alternative hypotheses , wherein the glucose is used for generation of reducing equivalents ( NADPH ) or anabolic precursors ( ribose ) are also discussed .
Serum vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) levels were measured using the enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) kit .
Among the members of this superfamily there are proteins with a regulatory function , such as ras , and proteins involved in vesicular trafficking , such as the family of rab proteins .
The initial wave of ERK activity ( 5 - 120 min ) was refractory to integrin antagonists , whereas the sustained activity ( 4 - 20 h ) depended on integrin alphavbeta3 , but not beta1 integrins .
In a third approach , cancer cells are induced to die by both apoptotic and necrotic events .
Cells of the highly metastatic lung - colonizing clone MTF7 . T35 . 3 , derived from the 13762NF cell line , were treated for 3 days with 0 . 1 , 1 , or 10 microM all - trans - RA , harvested , and seeded on [ 3H ] proline - labeled extracellular matrix deposited by cultured rat lung endothelial cells or on a film of purified [ 3H ] proline - labeled type IV collagen .
Angiotensin II induces soluble fms - Like tyrosine kinase - 1 release via calcineurin signaling pathway in pregnancy .
18F - FDG and 123I - IMT uptake was quantified as ratios between the uptake by the tumour and contralateral regions of reference .
Continuous ( 24h ) treatment with 5 microM doxorubicin resulted in cell cycle arrest in G0 / G1 phase that was neither accompanied by phosphorylation and activation of p53 nor enhanced expression of p21 .
However , the role of IL - 8 in non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma ( NHL ) has not been fully determined .
The induction of elevated p53 levels was dependent upon the presence of active virus and was prevented by neutralizing antibody .
Antiapoptotic effect of coagulation factor VIIa .
sVAP - 1 is also an independent predictive marker for lymph node metastasis .
2 - BE is a hemolytic agent that induces hemangiosarcomas in mice .
VEGF immunoreactivity was positive in 75 . 5 % of samples .
The Wilms tumor suppressor gene WT1 induces G1 arrest and apoptosis in myeloblastic leukemia M1 cells .
Treatment with anti - Fas for 48 h induced apoptosis with cells exhibiting typical apoptotic features including loss of cell contact , condensation of chromatin , and increased staining of the nuclear membrane .
Overall , paclitaxel exerts its anti - tumour effects on cervical cancer cells by inducing apoptosis through intrinsic pathway , and rapamycin targeted to mTOR can sensitise paclitaxel - resistant cervical cancer cells .
However , the increase in visual acuity is variable , probably due to the extent of RPE damage .
The angiogenic switch during tumorigenesis is thought to be induced by a change in the balance of pro - angiogenic and anti - angiogenic factors .
In this study , we have investigated gene knockdown analysis of endothelial Robos , in particular roundabout 4 ( robo4 ) , the predominant Robo in endothelial cells using small interfering RNA technology in vitro .
Although vascular casts must be interpreted with caution in light of the possibility of incomplete filling and other artifacts , they are a valuable tool in the study of ocular vasoproliferation .
PURPOSE : Members of the transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - beta superfamily play critical roles in regulation of various cellular functions .
We analyzed the relative abundance of ST3 and BM - 40 / SPARC transcripts by Northern blot , and their distribution by in situ hybridization , in normal mucosa , benign adenomas , and primary colorectal adenocarcinomas and their liver metastases .
Effect of thalidomide affecting VEGF secretion , cell migration , adhesion and capillary tube formation of human endothelial EA . hy 926 cells .
In the control group ( group 1 ) no further management was undertaken .
This prompted us to examine a hypothesis that insulin - like growth factors may be responsible for overexpression of tumor hexokinase .
( 1999 , Proc . Natl . Acad . Sci . USA 2645 - 2650 ) to inhibit endothelial cell proliferation and angiogenesis , both in vivo and in vitro , and to inhibit metastasis of a wide variety of tumors in vivo .
Lewis lung carcinomas , MT - ret melanomas , and B16F10 melanomas all grew slower in Ang - 2 - deficient mice .
Two of these spots were identified by MALDI - MS analysis as proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( PCNA ) and myeloid - leukemia - associated SET protein .
Using a Matrigel plug - based model , in vivo angiogenesis was restricted with STX243 and STX140 ( 50 and 72 % , respectively , using a 10 mg kg ( - 1 ) oral dose ) , thereby showing the antiangiogenic activity of both compounds .
Research on age - related impaired wound healing suggests that the decline in sex steroid hormones with age may have a substantial influence on the inflammatory response in vivo .
Using a construct containing the VEGF promoter linked to a luciferase reporter , we found that a mutation reducing HIF binding to the VEGF promoter had no significant effect on luciferase production induced by M - CSF stimulation .
High expression of VEGF correlated with a shorter overall survival ( log rank , p = 0 . 042 ) .
Immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated that Fas associated with c - erbB2 and c - met in untreated cells .
Compared with values measured at the edge of the ear and in the contralateral ear , leukocyte adhesion was found to be diminished significantly in vessels inside the ear tumor in both mouse models .
The specific isoform ( s ) of PKC responsible for each of these changes has not been previously identified .
Transcutaneous measurements of tissue pO2 showed elevation from 20 + / - 10 mm Hg during air breathing to 643 + / - 242 mm Hg while breathing pure oxygen at 2 . 5 ATA .
hADA3 functions as a coactivator for p53 - mediated transactivation by stabilizing p53 protein .
After two courses , the primary tumor was reduced to an ulcer scar with pathological confirmation of a complete disappearance of the cancer tissue .
TEL bound sequences in the stromelysin - 1 promoter and repressed the promoter in transient - expression assays , suggesting that it is a direct target for TEL - mediated regulation .
Glioma tumor stem - like cells promote tumor angiogenesis and vasculogenesis via vascular endothelial growth factor and stromal - derived factor 1 .
In addition , these clones also exhibit aggressive tumorigenic phenotypes in vivo with short latency in tumor formation in both immunodeficient and syngeneic mice .
Systematic proteomic analysis of human hepotacellular carcinoma cells reveals molecular pathways and networks involved in metastasis .
Relationship of cellular immunity , cytokines and CRP with clinical course in breast cancer patients with endocrine - dependent distant metastases treated with immunotherapy .
In addition suppression of WT1 expression by WT1 anti - sense oligonucleotide inhibits proliferation of leukemia cells , suggesting that WT1 is important for their proliferation .
The antibody also blocks ligand - stimulated activation of PDGFRbeta and downstream signaling molecules , including Akt and MAPK p42 / 44 , in tumor cells .
Expression of CD154 on renal cell carcinomas and effect on cell proliferation , motility and platelet - activating factor synthesis .
High - grade CC - RCC showed a higher ECP % ( P = 0 . 049 ) , a higher TCP % ( P = 0 . 009 ) , a higher VEGF protein expression ( P less than 0 . 001 ) , a lower MVD ( P less than 0 . 001 ) and a lower HIF - 1alpha protein expression ( P = 0 . 002 ) than low - grade CC - RCC .
The dynamic uptake of the glucose analogue [ 18F ] FDG was measured in diseased nodes and upper arm skeletal muscle in both metabolic states .
Crucial genetic events underlying the initiation and progression of colorectal and pancreatic adenocarcinoma with a particular focus on the modulation of angiogenesis and antiangiogenic therapies are discussed .
Collectively , these results suggest an important role for furin in PLAG1 - induced salivary gland tumorigenesis in mice .
RESULTS : Mean ( + / - SEM ) graft survival was significantly prolonged in animals receiving spironolactone ( 14 . 9 + / - 2 . 0 days ) compared with both PBS - treated ( 12 . 3 + / - 1 . 2 days , p = 0 . 007 ) and untreated controls ( 13 . 0 + / - 1 . 0 days , p = 0 . 01 ) .
Predictive markers for anti - VEGF agents have not yet been identified and questions regarding the usefulness of bevacizumab in the adjuvant setting as well as its continued use beyond progression remain unanswered , in spite of negative data on bevacizumab in treating patients with adjuvant colon cancer .
Vimentin expression was found preferentially in tumors with high GF ( greater than 15 % Ki - 67 positive by immunoperoxidase staining ) and low ER levels ( less than 60 fmols / mg protein by a monoclonal enzyme immunoassay ) .
Manipulation of Rab7a GTPase activity associated with late endosomes using overexpression of wild - type or mutant proteins blocks activated VEGFR2 trafficking and degradation .
Microarray analysis indicated significant alterations in expression of genes related to the TGFbeta pathway , as well as genes involved in infertility and extracellular matrix production .
Molecular analyses of tumors in beclin 1 heterozygous mice show that the remaining wild - type allele is neither mutated nor silenced .
These data provide a mechanism whereby VASP can influence endothelial migration and organization during capillary formation and modulate vascular permeability via effects on endothelial cell contractility .
Common features of this ECM - assisted tissue remodelling include angiogenesis , recruitment of circulating progenitor cells and constructive remodelling of damaged tissue structures .
Certain carcinostatic agents induce the expression of E - selectin on endothelial cells and enhance the expression of carbohydrate ligands on cancer cells .
While the response to most treatments was not affected by the VHL gene status , glucose deprivation was found to be much more cytotoxic for RCC cells lacking VHL gene function than for wtVHL - expressing cells .
These results indicate that HIF - 1 functions as a master regulator of angiogenesis by controlling the expression of multiple angiogenic growth factors and that adenovirus - mediated expression of a constitutively active form of HIF - 1alpha is sufficient to induce angiogenesis in nonischemic tissue of an adult animal .
The mice that received Hoxa9 / Meis1 - transduced bone marrow cells developed acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) , and Trib1 , Evi1 , Ahi1 , Raralpha , Pitpnb , and AK039950 were identified as candidate cooperative genes located near common retroviral integration sites .
Both were positive for HIF - 1alpha and phosphorylated c - Myc , and only one was positive for pAkt .
This study was aimed to determine the minimal fragment of PEDF , which maintains antiangiogenic and antitumor efficacy .
The aptamer - induced dimerization and inactivation of M2 - PK led to a significant decrease in the PK mass - action ratio as well as ATP : ADP ratio in the target cells .
The modulation of platelet and endothelial cell adhesion to vascular graft materials by perlecan .
CONCLUSIONS / SIGNIFICANCE : Together these data suggest that lymph node metastasis and poor survival in invasive ductal breast carcinoma are linked to an uncoupling of the Akt - FOXO3a signaling axis .
Because of this , and the virtual explosion of interest in pomegranate as a medicinal and nutritional product that has followed , this review is accordingly launched .
In addition , the silencing of DCC expression may contribute to the escape of endometrial cancer cells from a DCC - regulated apoptotic program , thereby promoting malignant phenotypes .
Metastasis from lung adenocarcinoma can occur swiftly to multiple organs within months of diagnosis .
Domain 5 ( D5 ) of cleaved high molecular weight kininogen ( HKa ) inhibits angiogenesis in vivo and endothelial cell migration in vitro , but the cell signaling pathways involved in HKa and D5 inhibition of endothelial cell migration are incompletely delineated .
All were assessed by a complete ophthalmological examination , including assessment of the best corrected visual acuity ( BCVA ) using an ETDRS chart , fluorescein and indocyanine angiography and optical coherence tomography ( OCT ) .
On the contrary , there was intense staining for HER2 on the basolateral membrane of epithelial cells of intestinal metaplasia ( 22 / 24 ; 91 . 7 % ) and carcinoma in situ ( 9 / 10 ; 90 % ) , the lesions that displayed a significantly high proliferation index .
In 3 months - old mice , pigmented cells were detected in spleen and inguinal lymph nodes .
From the above , we concluded that carcinostatic agents may increase the metastatic ability of cancer cells in patients with cancer .
Curcumin induces apoptosis in immortalized NIH 3T3 and malignant cancer cell lines .
Since the prognosis of locally advanced and metastatic diseases is poor , increased understanding of the pathogenesis of NPC would be important for discovering novel markers for patients ' management .
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES : Aquaporins ( AQPs ) play important roles in water and glycerol transport .
Bone destruction is primarily mediated by osteoclastic bone resorption , and cancer cells stimulate the formation and activation of osteoclasts next to metastatic foci .
Our results suggest that formation of a ternary complex of VEGF165 , KDR , and NRP1 potentiates VEGF165 binding to KDR .
However , its role in tumor - associated lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic metastasis remains unclear .
Compared with their corresponding single mutant littermates , the p18 ( - / - ) ; Men1 ( + / - ) mice develop tumors at an accelerated rate and with an increased incidence in the pituitary , thyroid , parathyroid , and pancreas .
[ Effect of osteopontin silencing by lentivirus - mediated delivery of siRNA on glioma cell invasion and apoptosis ] .
Integration of HPV DNA frequently disrupts the E2 open reading frames , resulting in overexpression of the E6 and E7 oncoproteins and possibly causing genomic instability .
Promoting angiogenesis via manipulation of VEGF responsiveness with notch signaling .
CONCLUSION : The up - regulation of HER2 and B ( 1 ) R in precursor lesions of gallbladder carcinoma suggests cross - talk between these two receptors that may be of importance in the modulation of cell proliferation in gallbladder carcinogenesis .
HBO is useful in chronic nonhealing wounds of the diabetic foot and of the diabetic foot with impending amputation .
The corresponding transcripts in KE and A - 1235 cells contain 1053 additional nucleotides representing an in - frame duplication of exons 18 through 25 which encode the entire TK region and a portion of the CAIN domain .
The concept of the neurovascular unit emphasizes that common signals and substrates underlie the physiology and pathophysiology of neuronal and endothelial compartments in brain .
The aim of the present study was to investigate the properties of VEGF expression in human gingival fibroblasts ( HGF ) culture .
Although short treatments with LeTx only modestly affected cell proliferation , sustained treatment markedly reduced cell numbers .
Co - expression of NRP1 and ( VEGFR - 2 ) KDR on the surface of endothelial cells ( EC ) enhances VEGF165 binding to KDR and EC chemotaxis in response to VEGF165 .
The results suggest that somatostatin and somatostatin receptors may play a regulatory role for hemodynamic tumor - host interactions , possibly involving tumor stroma generation , tumor environment , angiogenesis and , particularly , vascular drainage of poorly differentiated neoplasms .
In examining the metabolic basis for selenoperoxidase - dependent resistance , we found that glucose - replete Se ( - ) cells reduce t - BuOOH to t - butanol far more slowly than Se ( + ) cells , the ratio of the first - order rate constants approximating that of the GPX activities ( L1210 cells ) or PHGPX activities ( K562 cells ) .
Treatment with vehicle or with 10 and 50 mg / kg of DATS resulted in a reduction in tumor volume and weight .
In comparison with nonmetastasis Hep3B cell lines , there were 16 proteins overexpressed in MHCC97H and MHCC97L , 10 proteins underexpressed in MHCC97H and MHCC97L .
30 and 50 micrograms / ml of U - 995 , when added to TNF alpha - induced angiogenesis caused discontinuous and disrupted blood vessels .
Endocytosis of the conjugate and decomposition of the acid - labile linkage inside lysosomes and other acidic intracellular compartments should then lead to release of the cortisol and expression of its antiproliferative activity .
These results could explain the angiogenic and tumor - promoting effect of thrombin and provide the basis for development of thrombin receptor mimetics or antagonists for therapeutic application .
Here we characterized the effects of mutant CK1delta variants with impaired kinase activity on SV40 - induced cell transformation in vitro , and on SV40 - induced mammary carcinogenesis in vivo in a transgenic / bi - transgenic mouse model .
Increased levels of PAI - 1 were associated with a decreased survival in squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) X2 = 5 . 72 , p = 0 . 017 ( n = 74 ) .
The IGF - 1 gene was transfected into male SMCs and compared with SMCs transfected with a plasmid vector ( vector control ) and nontransfected SMCs ( cell control ) .
Unexpectedly , cells expressing both Ras and TEL grew as aggregates .
When the two groups were compared with respect to poor and good CCC , poor CCC was higher in patients with PDR ( 64 vs . 36 % , respectively , p = 0 . 01 ) .
Reporter gene analyses with a series of nested deletion mutants of the hepatoma type II hexokinase promoter show that a significant fraction of the total activation observed under hypoxic conditions localizes to the distal region where the overlapping HIF - 1 / E - box sequences are located .
Survivin partially antagonized the growth suppressive function of N - myc in SH - EP neuroblastoma cells during serum deprivation whereas FLIP ( L ) did not .
Tumor volume and total hemoglobin in allograft mice treated with 50 mg / kg DATS were significantly smaller than that in the control group .
The E - cadherin / alpha - , beta - , gamma - catenin complex has an invasion - suppressor function as evidenced by transfections either with sense cDNA encoding these molecules or with antisense cDNA inhibiting their expression .
The initial step of adhesion was mediated by sialyl Lewis ( x ) ( Le ( x ) ) and sialyl Le ( a ) , the carbohydrate determinants expressed on the cancer cells , and E - selectin expressed constitutively on F - 2 cells .
We determined that lacZ was uniformly expressed in the endothelium of transgenic embryos but was markedly downregulated postnatally .
This restriction enzyme site polymorphism along with the sequence variations were also observed in 50 biopsy tissues as well as in the throat washings of 6 out of 20 healthy individuals that we examined , indicating that the EBV strain predominantly existing in these biopsy tissues was different from strains of B95 - 8 , Jijoye or nude mouse passaged cells ( C15 ) with an African origin , but closely resembled other nude mouse passaged CAO cells which were originally derived from China .
This chapter describes intravital microscopy as a new imaging technique for detecting NO - dependent angiogenesis in an animal model .
Use of exogenous Sonic hedgehog ( Shh ) peptide significantly increased BrdU incorporation in endothelial cells in vitro by a factor of 2 ( P less than 0 . 001 ) .
Induced over - and under - expression of these genes has been used to demonstrate their affect on some aspects of hematopoiesis and leukemogenesis .
Careful selection of patients may be necessary before designing therapeutic strategies using either p53 or E2F - 1 as a therapeutic tools for glioma patients .
Ovarian cancer is a highly metastatic disease .
The grafts are extensively vascularized with capillaries composed of nonfenestrated endothelium ; intercellular junctions are evident at sites of apposition between endothelial cells .
This remodeling process seems to be mainly flow - mediated .
VEGF gene expression and capillary density in the old donor - derived group were lower than those in the young donor - derived group but higher than those in the control group ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
Cell lines established from such foci elicit tumours in syngeneic animals .
The combination of paclitaxel and 317615 x 2HCl resulted in 100 % 120 - day survival of SKOV - 3 bearing animals .
Three vascular grades were defined with appraisal by eye and by Chalkley counting : high ( Chalkley score 7 - 12 ) , medium ( 5 - 6 ) , and low ( 2 - 4 ) .
In vivo nuclear magnetic resonance analysis of tumor blood flow in linomide - treated animals showed localization of blood vessels almost exclusively to the periphery of the poorly vascularized tumors with a significant reduction of both vascular functionality and vasodilation .
Downregulation of E - cadherin occurred at the level of transcription or of mRNA stability .
In experimental RG1 2 . 2 glioma of rat brain , local blood flow , glucose utilization , protein synthesis , glucose and ATP content were measured by means of triple tracer autoradiography and bioluminescence technique , respectively , to determine hemodynamic and metabolic thresholds for local tumor energy failure .
These findings suggest a novel mechanism of retrovirus - induced activation of cellular gene expression , potentially contributing to leukemogenesis .
The E2F - 1 protein is able to induce generalized apoptosis in gliomas independently of the p53 , p16 or Rb status .
Here we show that UV - B can induce interleukin 8 ( IL - 8 ) mRNA and protein secretion in human cutaneous melanoma with negligible expression of IL - 8 .
These were pigmented , and maintained expression of tyrosinase , TRP - 1 , cytokeratin and SV40 Tag .
Active hair growth ( anagen ) is associated with angiogenesis .
Apoptosis induced by 1 ' - acetoxychavicol acetate in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells is associated with modulation of polyamine metabolism and caspase - 3 activation .
It is concluded that its action is targeted to tumor neovasculature and the mechanism is inhibition of tumor angiogenesis .
Its suppression has also been shown to be associated with malignant transformation of epithelial cells .
The heart functions ( left ventricle ejection fraction ( LVEF ) , left ventricle fractional shortening ( LVFS ) ) were improved more significantly in the old donor - derived MSCs group than in the control group and the heart function in the young donor - derived MSCs group further improved ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
Due to the low prevalence of hemangiopericytomas ( HPCs ) , data on the biophysiological characteristics of this tumor are rare .
Risk of myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia in congenital neutropenias .
METHODS : In this study , we screened the expression profile of AQP0 - 12 in breast cancer tissues and corresponding normal tissues by RT - PCR , Western blotting and immunohistochemistry .
The expression of TIMP1 suggests that the anti - proteolytic stimuli may be preponderant in p63 - positive carcinomas .
In the HT29 tumor model , treatment response to vandetanib ( 50 mg / kg / day , Monday - Friday for 2 weeks ) was greatest in xenografts derived from the highest VEGF - expressing cell clones .
BACKGROUND : Although many children with CHD develop pulmonary vascular disease , it is unclear why this complication is reversible after complete repair in some cases but irreversible in others .
The ras - transformed , ATX - secreting subclones had enhanced motility to ATX as chemoattractant , but there was little difference in the motility responses of NIH3T3 cells transfected with atx , an inactive mutant gene , or empty vector .
Genes most significantly represented in this program are those with roles in cell growth and proliferation > protein synthesis > gene expression > cell death > cell cycle .
The results were comparative to those of Northern blotting of the same cases .
In the present study , we found significant binding of nicked beta2GPI to AS4 . 5 ( K ( D ) = 3 . 27 x 10 ( 6 ) M ( - 1 ) ) .
However , very little is known about the function of RASSF1C both in normal and transformed cells .
Truncated galectin - 3 inhibits tumor growth and metastasis in orthotopic nude mouse model of human breast cancer .
The additional function of Pten as a dual - specificity protein phosphatase may also play a role in glioma pathogenesis .
METHODS : LOH of epigenetic microsatellites of PTEN ( D10S541 , D10S583 and D10S1687 ) in advanced gastric cancer was detected by PCR - SSCP .
TUNEL data are reported as percentage apoptotic cells .
These findings provide the first evidence that the AT2 receptor mediates a stimulation of in vivo angiogenesis and indicate that ANG II is a humoral regulator of peripheral angiogenesis involving two receptor subtypes with opposing actions .
The role of hypoxia in 2 - butoxyethanol - induced hemangiosarcoma .
VEGF - targeted therapy : therapeutic potential and recent advances .
In contrast , both HER2 ( 4 / 12 ; 33 % ) and B ( 1 ) R ( 1 / 12 ; 8 . 3 % ) showed a low expression in invasive gallbladder carcinomas .
Microvessel density ( MVD ) was determined by counting microvessels in tumor sections stained for Factor VIII - related antigen .
[ Retinochoroidopathy after intravitreal anti - VEGF treatment ]
Using immunoblot analysis , we show that AdGFPFasL ( TET ) is capable of initiating the classic Fas - mediated apoptotic pathway in DU145 cells , which includes activation of caspases - 8 , - 3 , - 7 , and - 9 , BID cleavage , cytochrome c release from mitochondria , and PARP cleavage .
These results demonstrate endogenous gene regulation by BAG - 1L by potentiating nuclear hormone receptor function and suggest a role for BAG - 1L in 24 - hydroxylase regulation of vitamin D metabolism and the cellular response of oral keratinocytes to 1alpha , 25 - dihydroxyvitamin D3 .
RESULTS : We demonstrated that cisplatin provoked a time - and dose - dependent decrease of HUVEC migration ; this effect was clearly independent from its well known cytotoxic activity .
Thus , 5T4 molecules can deliver signals through both the extracellular and intracellular domains , and the resultant effects are consistent with a role for 5T4 molecules in invasion processes .
Angiogenesis inhibitors have been developed to interrupt the angiogenic process at the growth factor , receptor tyrosine kinase and intracellular kinase levels .
As SET has been previously reported to be an inhibitor of phosphatase PP2A , the nuclear phosphatase activity was monitored in cells expressing activated Galpha ( 12 ) .
A vascular permeability enhancement ( VPE ) assay was performed using guinea pigs to ascertain whether supernatant from cultures of Ve - and OMP - stimulated HGF enhance vascular permeability in vivo .
The other induced genes revealed a whole set of biologically meaningful genes related to macrophage activation and TH1 immune response .
PLD activity has been shown to be significantly elevated in many tumours and transformed cells , suggesting the possibility that PLD might be involved in tumorigenesis .
Hence , we propose that the vector system , 5xHRE / SV40 / sTie2 , might be a useful tool for down - regulating tumor angiogenesis under hypoxic condition .
We previously showed that disruption of TGF - beta signaling by dominant - negative TGF - beta type II receptor in a diffuse - type gastric carcinoma model accelerated tumor growth through induction of tumor angiogenesis by decreased expression of the anti - angiogenic factor thrombospondin ( TSP ) - 1 .
The effect of swainsonine ( active compound of locoweed and a potential anticancer drug ) on vascular development showed no differences in sinusoidal diameters at 7 weeks , but a decrease in capillary density was noted .
Antioxidants significantly reduced TNFalpha - induced genetic damage .
In this location , it interacts with other proteins of the focal adhesion to activate intracellular signalling events associated with cell adhesion .
Sensitization to gimatecan - induced apoptosis by tumor necrosis factor - related apoptosis inducing ligand in prostate carcinoma cells .
Inhibition of energy - producing pathways of HepG2 cells by 3 - bromopyruvate .
In the meantime , it could also greatly reduce the G1 and S , with obviously dose - response relationship .
Ethanol exposure resulted in reduced VEGF - induced cord formation on collagen and reduced capillary network structure on Matrigel in vitro .
RESULTS : About 43 % ( 126 of 292 ) of known deregulated genes in TFs were associated with cell proliferation , extracellular matrix remodeling , and immune response .
Less than 15 % of the glucose uptake was affected by the 1 , 2 , 3 - benzenetricarboxylate inhibition of the malate - citrate shuttle .
Here , we demonstrate in mice pleiotropic involvement of PTHrP in key steps of breast cancer - it influences the initiation and progression of primary tumors and metastases .
Meanwhile , knockdown of HDGF , an up - regulated protein and a target of NF - kappaB , induced cell apoptosis in the metastatic HCC cells .
Simultaneous and continuous exposure of HT - 29 and HMVEC - d cells to low concentrations SN - 38 + L - OHP + 5 - FU for 144 h showed a strong antagonism and an unfavorable dose - reduction index .
Accumulating evidences indicate that receptor activator of NF - kB ligand ( RANKL ) is the ultimate extracellular mediator that stimulates osteoclast differentiation into mature osteoclasts .
uPA and uPAR levels were not significantly associated with tumour staging or survival .
CNV size did not affect visual outcomes .
In this review , we focus on the use of tumor necrosis factor alpha ( TNF ) in local and systemic therapy in conjunction with chemotherapy .
CONCLUSIONS : ITCs circulate even in early stages of disease .
CONCLUSION : The low expression or absence of stromal SPARC was an independent prognostic factor for poor prognosis of colon cancer .
These data also suggest that uPA and PAI - 1 may co - operate in the migratory process by respectively facilitating the attachment to , and subsequent detachment from , vitronectin in the extracellular matrix .
Increasing evidence suggests that elevated expression of ErbB - 3 is important for malignancy .
In brain , receptors for VEGF have been localized to vascular endothelium , neurons , and glia .
Tumors of H4 cells were well perfused , unlike tumors of H5 cells which were highly necrotic .
Lymph node metastasis is one of the most important prognostic factors in various types of cancers , including endometrial cancer .
In EC109 cells , growth arrest was by induction of apoptosis , associated with downregulation of Bcl - 2 , but not Bax .
In conclusion , p53 and VEGF were not correlated with prognosis in patients with stage II and III SCC of the esophagus .
Cytotoxic chemotherapy resistance is linked to limited therapeutic options and poor prognosis .
Cervical cancer develops from well - defined precursor lesions referred to as either cervical intraepithelial neoplasia or squamous intraepithelial lesions .
In the present study this region is shown to contain a gene encoding a protein of 40 kilodaltons in HTLV - I and 37 kilodaltons in HTLV - II .
Here we studied clusterin expression in PNT1a cells subjected to serum - starvation with the aim of defining clusterin early molecular changes following apoptosis induction .
The p75 receptor of neurotrophins ( p75 ( NTR ) ) , which is scarcely present in healthy endothelial cells ( ECs ) , becomes strongly expressed by capillary ECs after induction of peripheral ischemia in type - 1 diabetic mice .
Dietary CLA decreased serum levels of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and whole mammary gland levels of VEGF and its receptor Flk - 1 .
Recently , it was repeatedly demonstrated that statins , competitive inhibitors of 3 - hydroxy - 3 - methyl glutaryl coenzyme A ( HMG - CoA ) reductase , have antineoplastic effects .
Most of the tumor - suppressive properties of Pten are dependent on its lipid phosphatase activity , which inhibits the phosphatidylinositol - 3 ' - kinase ( PI3K ) / Akt signaling pathway through dephosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol - ( 3 , 4 , 5 ) - triphosphate .
EC9706 and EC109 cells were incubated with varying concentrations of aspirin and nimesulide , and the effects on cell proliferation and apoptosis were monitored by 3 - ( 4 , 5 - dimethyl - thiazol - 2yl ) - 2 , 5 - diphenyltetrazolium bromide and flow cytometry .
BACKGROUND : Patients with recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa ( RDEB ) have deficiencies of collagen type VII and have elevated levels of fibroblast collagenase , and a greatly increased risk of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma .
Regardless how death is inflicted , every cancer cell must die , be it fast or slow .
Ex vivo , estradiol exposure increased the IL - 8 secretion of normal whole breast tissue in culture .
VEGF regulates angiogenesis , which is also a fundamental event in the process of tumor growth and metastatic dissemination .
PROCEDURE : To investigate the effect of p75 expression in NB , we transfected the p75 cDNA into SH - SY5Y cells , an NB cell line lacking expression of both p75 and TrkA .
There was no difference in fat encapsulation , necrosis , hemorrhage , or exudate between prostheses .
The interleukin ( IL ) 2 - and beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin ( beta ( 2 ) m ) - deficient ( IL - 2 ( null ) x beta ( 2 ) m ( null ) ) mice spontaneously develop colon cancer in the setting of chronic UC .
After the completion of skin development , angiogenesis , i . e . , the growth of new capillaries from pre - existing blood vessels , is held to occur in the skin only under pathologic conditions .
The heightened sensitivity of VHL - deficient cells was not attributed to dissimilar energy requirements or to differences in glucose uptake , but more likely reflects a lesser ability of VHL - deficient cells to handle abnormally processed proteins arising from impaired glycosylation .
We found that silencing RASSF1C mRNA in breast cancer cell lines ( MDA - MB231 and T47D ) caused a small but significant decrease in cell proliferation .
METHODS : Thirty - six New Zealand white rabbits were evaluated in this study .
This primitive vascular network is extensively remodeled in some places , and expanded by sprouting in others .
While in control specimens are ara - C dose - dependent increase in 3H - ara - C uptake was accompanied by a corresponding rise in intracellular ara - C - 5 ' triphosphate ( ara - CTP ) levels , ara - CTP concentrations were not increased after GM - CSF or IL - 3 exposure , resulting in a higher ara - C to ara - CTP ratio over controls .
Pak1 associates with the complex of DLC1 and BimL , a proapoptotic BH3 - only protein , and phosphorylates both proteins .
The current results may have an impact on the effectiveness of clinical immunotherapeutic treatment protocols , because immune effector cells may not be able to enter tumor tissue .
After 1 week of treatment , before an increase in capillary length density , VEGF mRNA increased greater than 2 - fold and then declined to control levels after 3 weeks of treatment .
When a confluent monolayer of human umbilical vein endothelial cell line , ECV304 , was denuded , ECV304 at the wound edge expressed Ets - 1 .
We used a cellular model of tumor invasion to investigate the effect of activated platelets on the human ovarian cancer cell line , SKOV3 .
CONCLUSIONS : Young donor - derived MSCs can improve heart function significantly through angiogenesis and decreasing cardiomyocyte apoptosis when transplanted to the infarcted area .
RESULTS : The maximum tolerated dose of galectin - 3C in nude mice was determined to be > 125 mg / kg without overt adverse effects .
Correlation analysis was performed between blood vessel parameters and the amount of new bone formed during distraction .
A greater accumulation of peroxidative products ( thiobarbituric acid - reactive substances ) , inflammation and decreased levels of GSH and total antioxidant reserves were also observed in the skin of DMBA - Cum - OOH - exposed mice .
Reduced PTEN expression was inversely correlated to the expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen and to the activation of Erk1 , 2 , but not of Akt .
Interestingly , the neutralization of beta ( 1 ) or the inactivation of PAK increases PSMA activity , suggesting that they negatively regulate PSMA .
Hypoxia - activated functional HIF - 1 protein binds to hypoxia - responsive elements ( HRE ) in the enhancers of several genes including VEGF , the major player in angiogenesis , and initiates their mRNA expression .
As reported previously ( Namba et al . , 1985 ; Namba , 1985 ) , normal human fibroblasts were transformed into immortal cells with abnormal karyotypes by Co - 60 gamma - ray irradiation .
Long - term carcinogen exposure exerts continuous pressure on key mechanisms that repair or eliminate carcinogen - damaged cells giving rise to selective failures that contribute to lung cancer .
Forty male golden hamsters were divided into four equal groups .
p53 - deficient cancers are often unstable , aggressive , and resistant to therapy .
Furthermore , IL - 1beta - induced p38 mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) activation and upregulation of VEGF - C mRNA and protein in LLC cells was also suppressed by artemisinin or by the p38 MAPK inhibitor SB - 203580 , suggesting that p38 MAPK could serve as a mediator of proinflammatory cytokine - induced VEGF - C expression .
LPA downregulates TIMP3 , which may have targets other than metalloproteinases .
Regulation of the Warburg effect in early - passage breast cancer cells .
RESULTS : Overexpression of MDM2 by manual counts was seen in 44 % ( n = 47 ) of the patients .
Molecular factors which implement this triad of events are reviewed , as are several signal transduction components which may regulate them .
Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) transforms B lymphocytes through the expression of the latent viral proteins EBNA and latent membrane protein ( LMP ) .
Taken together , these data strongly support a role for the AP - 2 gene family , in particular , AP - 2gamma , in the control of ErbB - 3 expression .
96 , 2811 - 2816 .
Sunitinib markedly induced apoptosis of PC12 cells in a dose - dependent and time - dependent manner .
SDF - 1alpha induced rapid phosphorylation of Erk1 / 2 MAPK but did not promote phosphorylation of Stat3 or Akt .
Immunohistochemically stained sections of tumour were allocated a score for stain intensity and results correlated to : survival ; tumour stage ( T ) ; nodal stage ( N ) ; stage grouping ( I to IIIb ) , survival status and sex .
Various cellular kinases , among them members of the CK1 family , play an important role in modulating the transforming activity of SV40 , including the transforming activity of T - Ag , the major transforming protein of SV40 , itself .
In 32 evaluated breast cancer patients with endocrine - dependent distant metastases treated with a new immunotherapy schedule ( cyclic administration of beta - interferon and interleukin - 2 ) , cellular immunity , cytokines and CRP were related to the clinical course .
These studies thus identify p600 as a shared target of the E7 proteins of multiple papillomaviruses .
Recently , genetic abnormalities in the elements of the Thyrotropin receptor ( TSH - R ) dependent cAMP regulatory cascade have been found to be involved both in benign and malignant thyroid tumours .
The patterns of lymphatic vessels , the expression of VEGFs , and their correlation with neck metastases were assessed .
In an experiment in which vitamin E inhibited carcinogenesis , it was found that tumour angiogenesis and tumour growth - factor alpha ( TGF alpha ) expression were also inhibited .
Cytokines play an important role in creating an inflammatory microenvironment , which is now considered a hallmark of cancer .
In this regard , inhibitors of these pathways have been shown to be effective antitumoral agents .
The only CD8 + CD56 + postthymic T - cell lymphoma also expressed all three cytolytic markers , two CD8 - ALCL expressed TIA1 ; other postthymic T - cell , T - lymphoblastic , and B - cell lymphomas were consistently negative .
The inhibition of platelet activation with prostaglandin E1 ( PGE ( 1 ) ) attenuated the invasive capacity of SKOV3 cells .
Telomere / telomerase interplay in virus - driven and virus - independent lymphomagenesis : pathogenic and clinical implications .
Induction of FOXO3a activity in doxorubicin - sensitive MCF - 7 cells was sufficient to promote Akt phosphorylation and arrest cell proliferation .
RESULTS : 11 eyes of 11 patients were included in the study , which had a mean follow - up period of 11 months .
We examined transformation - induced alterations in proliferative and invasive abilities , responses to the invasion and proliferation - regulating growth factor TGFbeta and changes in gene expression for invasion - associated enzymes or enzyme inhibitors .
WNT / TCF signaling through LEF1 and HOXB9 mediates lung adenocarcinoma metastasis .
The absence of iritis , neovascularization , and necrotizing keratitis in the corneas of the immunized animals was particularly striking .
Genetic instability is a hallmark of human cancers .
There have been no reports showing the relativity of invasive breast cancer and the desmoplastic reaction by a quantitative analysis of the myofibroblasts that were an important player in the desmoplastic reaction .
Expression of thymidylate synthase and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase in primary oral squamous cell carcinoma and corresponding metastases in cervical lymph nodes : association with the metastasis suppressor CD82 .
Thus , c - myc induction is a resistance factor and our findings suggest that tumors carrying low levels of c - Myc protein could be more responsive to vinca alkaloids treatment .
Treatment with the antiangiogenic reagent TNP - 470 suppressed postoperative progression of pulmonary metastasis .
Emerging evidence shows that oncogenes that drive the cancer - promoting signals also drive the altered metabolism .
In summary , these results suggest that ADAM - 9 expression plays an important role in mediating cell - cell contacts between fibroblasts and melanoma cells and that these interactions contribute to proteolytic activities required during invasion of melanoma cells .
These findings suggest that c - Ski overexpression promotes the growth of diffuse - type gastric carcinoma through induction of angiogenesis .
An N - terminal segment containing the first 127 T - antigen amino acids ( T1 - 127 ) was sufficient to sensitize cells .
Fluorescence - activated cell sorter analysis showed that isolated tumor ECs have suppressed levels of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 as compared with ECs from normal mouse tissues .
Double mutants developed oocytes and became sterile females that produced only aberrant embryos and showed elevated risk for invasive ovarian tumors .
Latency was markedly increased and occurrence decreased in the p190 del C lines as compared with nonmutated p190 BCR / ABL transgenics .
The AAE and the AAPD are positioned to begin preparation of best practice guidelines that share common language and treatment recommendations for pulp therapies performed by both specialties .
HT - 29 human colorectal cancer xenograft model was used and tumour growth , microvessel density and VEGF quantification were performed in tumours after the administration of metronomic CPT - 11 , L - OHP , 5 - FU and their simultaneous combination .
Moreover , the conditioned medium from TFs was found to be able to promote ESCC tumor cell growth , migration , and invasion in vitro .
These fundamental discoveries led to additional research conducted by Napoleone Ferrara and his laboratory , confirming the cloning of VPF and renaming the protein vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of doxorubicin in Hct - 116 human colon carcinoma cells in order to clarify if a time / concentration range for optimal doxorubicin - induced apoptosis exists .
Airway angiogenesis and microvascular remodeling are known features of bronchial asthma , but the mechanisms of these structural alterations are just beginning to be elucidated .
We also speculate that this synchronizes them into a temporal highly chemosensitive state and is the underlying reason why adjuvant chemotherapy works particularly well for that patient category .
The proinflammatory activities link TNF - alpha with a wide variety of autoimmune diseases , including psoriasis , inflammatory bowel disease , rheumatoid arthritis , systemic sclerosis , systemic lupus erythematosus , multiple sclerosis , diabetes and ankylosing spondylitis .
We investigated the presence of COUP - TFII in human colorectal cancer tissues and adjacent normal tissues from 95 primary colorectal cancer patients by immunohistochemistry .
Rat - 1 cells which had been transformed with the activated Ha - ras - 1 gene from human EJ bladder carcinoma cells were fused with diploid embryonic rat fibroblasts .
These data suggest that angiogenesis in operable non - small cell lung cancer is a major prognostic factor for survival and , among the parameters tested , is the only factor related to cancer cell migration to lymph nodes .
Moreover , about 10 % of v - fos transformed cells transfected with vectors that express antisense junB mRNA acquired a non - transformed phenotype .
METHODS : Preoperative serum was collected from 107 gastric cancer patients and 33 normal controls .
The frequency of COX - 2 and PPARgamma detection was significantly increased and decreased as lesions progressed to carcinoma , respectively .
Consistent with this hypothesis , inhibition of Erbb2 in v - ras ( Ha ) transgenic mice before UV exposure resulted in both 56 % fewer skin tumors and tumors that were 70 % smaller .
Here we review the recent evidence of a simple genetic mechanism by which tumor suppressor p53 regulates mitochondrial respiration with secondary changes in glycolysis that are reminiscent of the Warburg effect .
Promoting angiogenesis via delivery of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and other angiogenic factors is both a potential therapy for cardiovascular diseases and a critical aspect for tissue regeneration .
The angiogenic action of thrombin has been shown to be mediated by activation of the thrombin receptor .
The up - regulation of Bid ( 57 . 5 % at 12 hours , P less than 0 . 0006 ) and inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor secretion ( 57 . 7 % at 24 hours , P less than 0 . 015 ; and 50 . 3 % at 48 hours , P less than 0 . 0006 ) could be partially attributed to the effects on HIF - 1alpha , because HIF - 1alpha small interfering RNAs produced similar effects .
We now show that c - MYC overexpression is sufficient to rescue proliferation and to release the differentiation block imposed by Runx2 .
In vivo animal models of tissue injury and in vitro data also implicate syndecans in processes necessary for wound healing , including fibroblast and endothelial proliferation , cell motility , angiogenesis , and extracellular matrix organization .
All of the clones in culture showed almost the same low level of metastatic ability and exhibited little K - ras oncogene amplification with correspondingly low mRNA expression .
In addition to its role in embryonic development , the Hedgehog pathway has been shown to be an active participant in cancer development , progression , and metastasis .
There was a significant correlation between D2 - 40 + LVI and age , t - stage , nodal status , grading and hormonreceptor - status .
Tumor angiogenesis has been related to the initiation as well as progression toward more aggressive behavior of human tumors .
In this study we examined the role of p24 proteins in insulin transport .
The level of necrosis , as measured by propidium iodide internalization , increased significantly after 24 hours exposure to Sim at 50 microM ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
Clinical studies have shown elevated serum IL - 6 concentrations in patients with endometrial cancer , non - small cell lung carcinoma , colorectal cancer , renal cell carcinoma , breast and ovarian cancer .
In colonic carcinoma specimens , the peritumoral vessels expressed a high density of somatostatin receptors , whereas the neoplastic tissue itself was receptor - negative in many cases .
Evaluations were graded on a zero to four scale .
Understanding molecular mechanisms regulating angiogenesis may lead to novel therapies for ischemic disorders .
One 9 - year - old boy with bilateral microcarcinoma already had a lymph node metastasis .
Transformation - associated cytokine 9E3 / CEF4 is chemotactic for chicken peripheral blood mononuclear cells .
BMSVTs immortalized with hTERT formed large colonies in vitro and small transient tumours in vivo .
Sunitinib is an oral multitargeted receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor with antiangiogenic and antitumor activity that mainly targets vascular endothelial growth factor receptors ( VEGFRs ) .
From these results , it was suggested that PPARgamma activation might suppress COX - 2 expression via the nuclear factor - kappaB pathway in the ovarian carcinoma cells and that low expression of PPARgamma and high expression of COX - 2 might be involved in carcinogenesis and progression of ovarian tumours .
Expression was evaluated in normal breast tissue and carcinoma , nuclei and cytoplasm , as intensity ( 0 to 3 + ) , and percentage of positive cells .
Furthermore , our data indicate that loss of wt - p53 function in tumor cells may contribute to up - regulation of survivin and resistance to DNA - damaging agents .
E mu - bcl - 2 transgene facilitates spontaneous transformation of early pre - B and immunoglobulin - secreting cells but not T cells .
Mice that received either IR or TEMF had significantly fewer lung metastatic sites and slower tumor growth than did untreated mice .
OBJECTIVE : To study the activation of sterol regulatory element binding protein ( SREBP ) and its critical role in endothelial cell migration .
Strong staining for bFGF was also found in cardiac muscle fibers , smooth muscle cells of mid - size blood vessels , the gut and the myometrium , in central nervous system neurons and cerebellar Purkinje cells , and on epithelial cells of the bronchi , colon , endometrium , and sweat gland ducts of the skin .
In the pathologic analysis of the abdominal wounds , there was no statistically significant difference between any of the groups , including the control group , regarding inflammation .
Additional grafted rats treated with spironolactone ( n = 6 ) or PBS ( n = 8 ) were sacrificed on day 12 for quantitative RT - PCR analysis for mechanistic studies .
Focal adhesion kinase ( pp125FAK or FAK ) is a protein tyrosine kinase which is associated with intracellular signalling cascades which are initiated when the integrin family of cell adhesion molecules engage extracellular matrix molecules .
CONCLUSIONS : Intravitreal bevacizumab can be used to treat radiation retinopathy .
Q - RT - PCR was a useful method to detect the mRNA levels of nm23 gene in buccal carcinoma .
Endothelial cells grown at normal pH suffer no ill effects from this angiostatin - mediated inhibition of ATP synthase , whereas endothelial cells grown at low , tumor - like extracellular pH cannot maintain a normal intracellular pH and die .
Instead of cancer initiation , it is therefore likely that Tsg101 plays a more predominant role in the progression of a subset of spontaneously arising breast cancers .
Stimulation of angiogenesis by adipose tissue was nearly abolished by bevacizumab , which specifically targets human VEGF .
With this retrovirus , LMP1 was shown to stimulate the proliferation of primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts ( MEF cells ) .
MMP - 2 was increased with malignancy , but no expression of MMP - 9 was seen .
However , a statistically significant correlation was found between the surface expression of CD40 and the metastatic spread of the tumor .
By contrast to the cytoplasmic BAG - 1 isoforms , BAG - 1L may act to suppress tumorigenesis .
Taken together , these data suggest that signal - controlled activation of SRF , MRTF - A , and CBP provides a novel connection between mechanical stimuli and angiogenic gene expression .
In tumor studies , P18 was more effective in blocking the angiogenesis and growth of the prostate cancer than parental 34 - mer ; in the renal cell carcinoma , P18 strongly decreased angiogenesis and halted the progression of established tumors .
Characterization of the metabolic changes underlying growth factor angiogenic activation : identification of new potential therapeutic targets .
Here , we report the cDNA cloning of the corresponding oncogene , designated UFO , in allusion to the as yet unidentified function of its protein .
Expression of osteoprotegerin and RANK ligand in breast cancer bone metastasis .
Increased TLX expression was observed in a number of glioma cells and glioma stem cells , and correlated with poor survival of patients with gliomas .
[ Treatment of the diabetic foot by hyperbaric oxygen ]
We previously reported the cloning and characterization of a HBV insert from a Chinese HCC .
c - myc is a major target that transduces Myb ' s proliferative signal , as shown by the ability of a c - Myc - estrogen receptor fusion protein alone to also reverse growth arrest in this system .
Human papillomavirus oncoprotein E6 inactivates the transcriptional coactivator human ADA3 .
TIMP2 and TIMP3 play functional role in LPA - induced invasion as negative regulators .
The expression of endothelial cell ( EC ) adhesion molecules involved in leukocyte - vessel wall interactions is suppressed in malignancies .
In this study we separated weakly acidic phenolic components from other neutral , acidic and basic components of tobacco smoke condensate ( TSC ) and observed that phenolic fraction of TSC significantly increased the number of colonies of promotion - sensitive JB6 Cl41 cells that showed anchorage - independent growth on soft agar in response to BPDE ( an ultimate carcinogen produced by metabolic activation of the PAH benzo [ a ] pyrene ) .
Systemic inhibitors of TNF such as etanercept ( Enbrel ) ( a soluble TNF receptor ) and infliximab ( Remicade ) and adalimumab ( Humira ) ( anti - TNF antibodies ) have been approved for the treatment inflammatory bowel disease , psoriasis and rheumatoid arthritis .
It also promotes endothelial differentiation into capillary - like structures in an in vitro assay and is angiogenic in the chick chorionallantoic membrane .
This study highlights the advantages of arranging the BHRF1 miRNAs in clusters : it allows the synchronous and synergistic expression of genetic elements that cooperate to transform their target cells .
After acquiring and interpreting diagnostic angiograms and repositioning a patient in front of the device , feeder vessel DEP and treatment evaluation required 15 to 20 minutes .
In this study , we applied a proteomics strategy to identify novel proteins involved in ECM modeling that are regulated by LRP - 1 .
This identifies a novel function of Evi - 1 as a member of corepressor complexes and suggests that aberrant recruitment of corepressors is one of the mechanisms involved in Evi - 1 - induced leukemogenesis .
Among 18 BCR - ABL + leukemias presenting acquired trisomy of chromosome 21 , we report a high frequency ( 33 % ) of recurrent point mutations ( 4 in myeloid blast crisis [ BC ] CML and one in chronic phase CML ) within the DNA - binding region of RUNX1 .
In 4 weeks after surgery , angiogenesis of test group reached to peak .
In recent years , investigating the metabolic changes within cancer cells has been a rapidly growing area .
A 71 - year - old woman was admitted to our hospital because of breathlessness .
The process of angiogenesis is also thought to occur in response to ischaemic conditions , which lie at the core of cardiovascular disease states such as coronary artery disease and congestive heart failure .
Given the dominant role of p21 in p53 cell cycle control , we crossed Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) mice onto a p21 - null background to determine whether p21 was required for maintaining chromosomal stability and delaying tumor onset .
Cobalt chloride , a stimulator of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) stimulated angiogenesis initiation at 10 ( - 9 ) M in fat tissue and the HPVAM , but at 10 ( - 10 ) M blood vessel growth was stimulated only in the fat assay .
Although DU145 prostate cancer cells are resistant to exogenously applied Fas agonist CH - 11 ( anti - Fas monoclonal antibody ) , Fas - resistance can be overcome using a FasL expressing adenovirus ( AdGFPFasL ( TET ) ) [ Hyer et al . , Molecular Therapy , 2000 ; 2 : 348 - 58 ( ref . 12 ) ] .
Recent studies have demonstrated that tumor cells treated with antibodies specific for beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin ( beta ( 2 ) M ) or major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) class I molecules undergo apoptosis in vitro and in vivo ( mouse models ) .
Punica granatum ( pomegranate ) and its potential for prevention and treatment of inflammation and cancer .
CD40 activation by CD154 may trigger diverse cellular responses , ranging from proliferation and differentiation to growth suppression and cell death , in normal and malignant cells .
Taken together , the lines of evidence demonstrate that betulin triggers apoptosis of human cancer cells through the intrinsic apoptotic pathway .
Moreover , we showed that combination of E1A gene therapy and SAHA showed high therapeutic efficacy with low toxicity in vivo ovarian and breast xenograft models .
Syndecans are a family of transmembrane heparan sulfate proteoglycans widely expressed in both developing and adult tissues .
In conclusion , HAH - cortisol represents the prototype of a new class of angiogenesis inhibitors for the treatment of cancer and other angiogenic diseases .
We examined whether betulin , a naturally abundant compound , has anticancer functions in human cancer cells .
This pathway will continue to be a focus of investigation , particularly with respect to targeted experimental chemotherapeutics .
Our experiments demonstrate that insulin - like growth factor I indeed induces hexokinase gene expression in a concentration and time dependent manner in two cancer cell lines we studied .
In contrast , no leukemia was observed with a myb IRES virus , with spliced vectors containing v - erbA alone or v - erbA in combination with v - myb , nor with erbA IRES and erbA / myb IRES viruses produced in the absence of helper virus .
Microvessel density and ECP % were inversely correlated ( Rho = - 0 . 26 , P = 0 . 001 ) .
Mouse p10 , an alternative spliced form of p15INK4b , inhibits cell cycle progression and malignant transformation .
Efficient inhibition of ovarian cancer growth and prolonged survival by transfection with a novel pro - apoptotic gene , hPNAS - 4 , in a mouse model .
However , unlike tumor invasion , trophoblast invasion of the uterus is stringently controlled in situ by local molecules such as transforming growth factor ( TGF ) beta .
This effect was mediated , at least partly , through caspase activation .
Very recently , sunitinib has been shown to be an active agent for the treatment of malignant pheochromocytomas .
Long - term peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) is limited by morphological changes of the peritoneal membrane .
Effects of repeated low - level X radiation on functional microvascular changes in hamster cheek pouch epithelium during and following carcinogenesis by 7 , 12 - dimethylbenz [ a ] anthracene ( DMBA ) were studied .
The tumors of A431 supplemented with F - 2 cells were profoundly vascularized throughout by the tubular structures formed by F - 2 cells , the lumen of which contained the host rat blood cells .
Pouch vascular volume and permeability changes were studied by fractional distributions of radiotracers and were analyzed by a variety of statistical methods which explored the vascular parameters , treatment types , elapsed time , presence of the carcinogen , and histopathologic changes .
The result of double staining indicated that macrophage with positive VEGF - C expression accounted for about 22 . 8 % of the total .
SAHA downregulated Bcl - XL and upregulated proapoptotic BH3 - only protein Bim , whose expression was further enhanced by E1A in cancer cells .
Circulating endothelial cells in malignant disease .
Histologic parameters ( primary and secondary bone trabecula , neovascularization , and bone marrow and connective tissue formation ) were compared between 4 - and 16 - week groups . More rapid decrease in defect size was observed in groups 3 and 4 than in groups 1 and 2 , both in the 4th and 16th weeks .
These complexes are formed on the surface of EC and in a juxtacrine manner via association of tumor cell NRP1 and EC KDR .
The expression of Cbl at the plasma membrane targets both Hck and itself for ubiquitination and degradation , requiring an intact RING finger .
Conversely , expression of pAd - T34A caused apoptosis in umbilical vein and dermal microvascular endothelial cells and resulted in caspase - 3 activity .
The evaluation of immunostaining of Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 was analyzed in 10 different tumor fields , and the mean percentage of tumor cells with positive staining was evaluated .
CONCLUSIONS : The results have shown that bisphosphonates as adjuvant treatment might be useful for the prevention of bone metastases ; however , there is need for blinded randomized data before such an approach would be confirmed .
The objective of this study was to ascertain whether STX243 is more active in vivo than the clinically relevant drug 2 - methoxyoestradiol ( 2 - MeOE2 ) and the structurally similar compound 2 - MeOE2 - 3 , 17 - O , O - bis - sulphamate ( STX140 ) .
Their resistance to the anti - invasive action of TGFbeta was explained by the failure of TGFbeta to upregulate TIMPs and PAI - I , in contrast to the TGFbeta - induced upregulation noted in parental HTR8 cells .
The effect of ATX secretion on in vitro cell motility was variable .
RESULTS : Bevacizumab treatment was followed by reductions in retinal hemorrhage , exudation , and edema .
Nerve growth factor ( NGF ) has been demonstrated to support survival and differentiation of neuroblastoma ( NB ) cells by activation of the TrkA receptor .
The p53 gene is inactivated in about 50 % of human cancers and the p53 protein is an essential component of the cell response induced by genotoxic stresses such as those generated by radiotherapy or chemotherapy .
Using tamoxifen and doxorubicin - sensitive and - resistant breast cancer cell lines as models , we found that doxorubicin - but not tamoxifen - resistance is associated with nuclear accumulation of FOXO3a , consistent with the finding that sustained nuclear FOXO3a is associated with poor prognosis .
Furthermore , the possibility of selective targeting of PTEN mutant tumor cells by specific pharmacologic inhibitors of members of the Pten / PI3K / Akt pathway opens up new perspectives for a targeted molecular therapy of malignant gliomas .
Recently VEGF - B and VEGF - C , two new VEGF family members , have been identified that bind to the tyrosine kinase receptors flt - 1 ( VEGFR1 ) , KDR ( VEGFR2 ) , and flt - 4 ( VEGFR3 ) .
The system also permits precise aiming and delivery of 810 - nm wavelength photocoagulation laser energy to target FVs on a real - time ICG angiogram image of the choroidal vasculature .
For patients with limb threatening ischaemia the only option for relief of rest pain or gangraena is amputation .
The percentage of cell apoptosis increased with the enhancing of concentration .
Homeostasis of the extracellular matrix is a delicate balance between degradation and remodeling , the balance being maintained by the interaction of activated matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) and specific tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases ( TIMPs ) .
Finally , intraperitoneal injection or oral administration of HTPB efficiently inhibited A549 xenograft tumor growth in vivo without side effects .
Thrombin greatly potentiates vascular endothelial growth factor - ( VEGF - ) induced endothelial cell proliferation .
These findings reveal what we believe to be a novel pathogenic process with important implications for the development of new therapies for AMD .
BACKGROUND : Endostatin , a C - terminal fragment of collagen XVIII , is an endogenous angiogenesis inhibitor .
Cell lines were established from tumor and metastases and kept in culture for more than 2 months .
Vascular grade was not related to histology , grade , proliferation index ( Ki67 ) , or EGFR or p53 expression .
We also report on the identification of novel RASSF1C target genes .
Collectively , our data newly demonstrate the antiangiogenic action of p75 ( NTR ) and open new avenues for the therapeutic use of p75 ( NTR ) inhibition to combat diabetes - induced microvascular liabilities .
Mild mutations in BRCA2 ( FANCD1 ) cause Fanconi anemia ( FA ) when homozygous , while severe mutations cause common cancers including breast , ovarian , and prostate cancers when heterozygous .
Recombinants that lacked miR - BHRF1 - 2 or miR - BHRF1 - 3 displayed enhanced EBNA expression initiated at the Cp and Wp promoters .
This review article focuses on recent developments in the use of angiogenesis inhibitors for the treatment of breast , lung , and colorectal cancers .
Clinical evaluations performed at all study visits included measurement of best - corrected Snellen visual acuity , slit - lamp biomicroscopy , and fundus fluorescein angiography .
Angiogenesis is a key event in the progression of malignant gliomas .
We recently observed that FOXO3a gene inactivation occurs frequently in carcinogen - induced lung adenocarcinoma ( LAC ) .
Repeated rounds of mutation , selection , and proliferation may lead to cancer .
Several regulatory and signaling molecules governing angiogenesis are of interest , including growth factors ( eg , vascular endothelial growth factor , platelet - derived growth factor , fibroblast growth factor , and epidermal growth factor ) , receptor tyrosine kinases , and transcription factors such as hypoxia inducible factor , as well as molecules involved in mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) and phosphoinositide 3 - kinase ( PI3K ) signaling .
Dose - and time - dependent effects of doxorubicin on cytotoxicity , cell cycle and apoptotic cell death in human colon cancer cells .
RESULTS : We detected only wild - type nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 mRNA .
This allowed coexpression of the two proteins and a comparison with the same vector containing either v - erbA or v - myb only .
Gene expression signatures denoting WNT / TCF activation are associated with relapse to multiple organs in primary lung adenocarcinoma .
We have suggested that constitutive activation of this kinase is one mechanism by which oncogenes transform cells .
BMSVTs exhibited a partially transformed phenotype , demonstrating growth factor independence , altered antigen expression and forming tiny , infrequent colonies in vitro .
Six weeks later , mice were randomly divided into four treatment groups : untreated controls ; 10 minute daily TEMF ; 200 cGy of IR every other day ( total 800 cGy ) ; IR plus daily TEMF .
This suggests that FOXO3a may play a role in LAC suppression by eliciting a protective response to carcinogenic stress .
Differential diagnosis for synchronous primary ovarian and endometrial cancers and metastatic cancer .
RAF265 also inhibited FDG accumulation in tumor xenografts after 1 day of drug treatment .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the effect of vascular bundle implantation in autogenous bone graft on angiogenesis .
METHODS : We used ribonuclease protection assays to analyze human colon tumors for the level of nm23 - H1 ( 43 samples ) and nm23 - H2 ( 41 samples ) transcript ( mRNA ) expression and the presence of mutations that could inactivate potential suppressor function .
These data suggest that 20 - HETE stimulates superoxide formation by pathways other than apocynin - sensitive NAD ( P ) H oxidase , thereby activating MAPK and then enhancing VEGF synthesis that drives EC proliferation .
Results were analyzed with chi2 tests .
Associations of KISS1 methylation and its expression with histopathological variables and poor survival suggest the utility of incorporating KISS1 measurement using paraffin - embedded material for tumor stratification and clinical outcome prognosis of patients with uroepithelial neoplasias .
For verifying apoptosis , both DNA Fragmentation by ELISA assay and caspase 3 / 7 activity measurement were used .
OBJECTIVE : To document that a polyclonal antiserum to calretinin , a 29 - kd calcium - binding protein , consistently decorates normal and tumor mesothelial cells in cytologic preparations .
In addition , the positivity rate of EphA2 was significantly higher in primary lesions with lymph node metastasis than in those without metastasis ( p = 0 . 0014 ) .
Twenty - one patients underwent resection of the remnant stomach for RSC and were divided into two groups : the RSCB group consisted of 11 patients who underwent distal gastrectomy for benign disease and the RSCM group consisted of 10 patients who underwent gastrectomy for primary gastric cancer .
Transformants induced by 5 - azacytidine lost c - myc - induced apoptotic cell death , whereas MnSO4 - induced transformants showed a higher degree of apoptosis than the parental Rat 6 / c - myc cells .
Combination of ATX expression with ras transformation produced cells with greatly amplified tumorigenesis and metastatic potential compared to ras - transformed controls .
Furthermore , transfection of E - cadherin cDNA into invasive NM - f - ras - TD cells resulted in the upregulation of syndecan - 1 expression in association with decreased invasiveness .
In conclusion , the metastasis from TRP - 1 / Tag RPE tumors towards spleen and lymph nodes serves as potential tool to investigate biology and metastasis of tumors derived from the pigment epithelium .
Western blotting of p53 and murine double mutant 2 ( Mdm2 ) together with p53 DNA sequencing analysis indicate that p53 function loss by mutation or overexpression of Mdm2 occurred in all tested oral cancer cells regardless of their etiology .
Effect of ROS on angiogenesis in tumors expressing hot - spot p53 mutants was correlated with their ability to increase a content of HIF1 transcriptional factor responsible for up - regulation of VEGF - A mRNAs .
Our data showed that under hypoxia the secreted sTie2 selectively inhibited tube formation and migration capacities of endothelial cells in vitro .
Here we report a zebrafish brca2 insertional mutant that shares phenotypes with human patients and identifies a novel brca2 function in oogenesis .
Trib1 and Evi1 cooperate with Hoxa and Meis1 in myeloid leukemogenesis .
These results suggest that C / EBPbeta may be a marker of neoplastic transformation and also play an active role in gastric tumourigenesis by regulating COX - 2 expression .
The incidence of high - grade lesions in the folate - deficient group was also 49 % lower than that in the control group ( 33 . 3 % versus 65 . 1 % , P = 0 . 007 ) .
MET expression is rarely detected in primary human melanoma but is frequently observed in metastatic disease .
Serum soluble vascular adhesion protein - 1 is a valuable prognostic marker in gastric cancer .
MEK5 / ERK5 signaling modulates endothelial cell migration and focal contact turnover .
BACKGROUND : A potent angiogenesis inhibitor , U - 995 , has been purified from the cartilage of the blue shark ( Prionace glauca ) .
However , when compared with clinicopathological features , the expression of HSP27 correlated inversely with survival period .
In groups 1 & 2 , hindlimb ischemia was induced by ligation of femoral artery and they received L - NIL and saline respectively .
The CCAAT / enhancer - binding protein beta ( C / EBPbeta ) transcription factor has been associated with several cancer models .
Two separate regions of Evi - 1 are responsible for this repression , one of which is the first zinc - finger domain .
Homeobox genes in hematopoiesis and leukemogenesis .
Recruiting a new blood supply is a rate - limiting step in tumor progression .
The prevailing model for Notch signaling suggests that ligand , presented on a neighboring cell , triggers proteolytic processing of Notch .
Transfection with hTERT alone , led to the immortalization of two out of three cultures of bone marrow - derived ECs ( BMECs ) .
As coronary artery disease is the major cause of death in the developed societies and also an emerging health problem in developing countries like Bangladesh therapeutic angiogenesis may provide hope as a new treatment modality for ischemic heart disease with or in place of current therapies .
Carcinogenesis and transcriptional regulation through Maf recognition elements .
In many diseases state body loses control over angiogenesis .
It is suggested that MMP - 9 may have a role in the LMP1 - induced acceleration of invasion and metastasis of NPC cells .
Furthermore , LMP1 cooperates with a p16 - insensitive CDK4 ( R24C ) oncogene in transforming MEF cells .
The neoplastic transformation of cultured rat liver epithelial cells by various means has consistently been associated with the development of resistance to the mito - inhibitory effect of transforming growth factor beta ( TGF - beta ) , suggesting that such phenotype plays a mechanistic role during the transformation of these cells .
Activating mutations of the TSH - R gene have been detected in a group of differentiated carcinomas with high basal adenylyl cyclase activity , and in a few cases of hyperfunctioning thyroid carcinoma .
Their correlation with lymph node metastasis and the predictability of lymph node metastases , by combining these factors , were also discussed .
Aberrant angiogenesis leads to a variety of diseases , such as ischemia and cancer .
Development of a mouse model for lymph node metastasis with endometrial cancer .
Targets identified in these novel and diverse FH - deficient models represent excellent potential candidates for further mechanistic investigation and therapeutic metabolic manipulation in tumors .
This suggests that the activity of topo I inhibitors will not differ across various tumor stages , pathology , and patient gender .
VEGF was also increased in parallel to enhanced IGF - 1 expression .
All data are reported as means + / - SEM .
In this study , we determined the effectiveness of vasostatin delivered by recombinant pseudotype adeno - associated virus 2 / 5 ( rAAV2 / 5 - VAS ) as a gene therapy approach for lung cancer treatment .
Increased nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 messenger RNA expression and absence of mutations in colon carcinomas of low and high metastatic potential .
To evaluate the role of VEGF - C in lymph node metastasis , we developed an animal model by using an endometrial cancer cell line , HEC1A .
TSP - 2 deficiency dramatically enhanced susceptibility to skin carcinogenesis and resulted in accelerated and increased tumor formation .
In conclusion , the decrease in c - Myc expression enhanced the VLB sensitivity , triggering earlier apoptosis through induction of the intrinsic pathway .
Single cell transplants showed that a common precursor contributes to both the hemopoietic and endothelial lineages , thus demonstrating the presence of an adult hemangioblast .
This review will discuss the regulation of expression of IGF - 1 , IGF - 1R , and IGF binding proteins in the vasculature and summarize evidence implicating involvement of this system in vascular diseases .
Additionally , glutathione depletion and extracellular signal - regulated kinase ( ERK ) inactivation was observed in EPOX - treated cells .
To begin to explain the morphology of Ras - plus TEL - expressing cells , we demonstrated that the endogenous matrix metalloproteinase stromelysin - 1 was repressed by TEL .
Addition of exogenous PAI - 1 , however , prevented HT1080 cell adhesion ( IC50 180 nM ) and promoted cell detachment from vitronectin .
The 20 - HETE agonist markedly increased superoxide formation as reflected by an increase in dihydroethidium staining of EC , and this increase was inhibited by PEG - SOD but not by apocynin .
Lysophosphatidic acid downregulates tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases , which are negatively involved in lysophosphatidic acid - induced cell invasion .
Targeted down - regulation of PIM - 2 by RNA interference ( RNAi ) selectively abrogated survival of Ba / F3 cells transformed by various Fms - like tyrosine kinase 3 ( FLT3 ) - activating mutants [ internal tandem duplication ( ITD ) and kinase domain ] and attenuated growth of human cell lines containing FLT3 mutations .
Ischemic cardiac muscle is additionally vulnerable because reperfusion is essential for survival but reperfusion itself poses additional stress principally from increased production of free radicals during reoxygenation .
Similarly , perivascular inflammatory T - cells expressed more antiapoptotic proteins in irreversible PHT ( p less than 0 . 01 ) .
Controlling lymph node metastasis is currently a key issue in cancer therapy .
The expression of HLA - DR was correlated with the histologic type .
The stromal cells in turn produce factors that nurture the tumor .
VEGFR1 - positive haematopoietic bone marrow progenitors initiate the pre - metastatic niche .
Adult rat urothelial cells were transformed in vitro following treatment with a single dose of N - methyl - N - nitrosourea ( MNU ) or MNU treatment followed by promotion with sodium saccharin .
Our data suggest that KISS1 and MMP - 9 may serve as potential prognostic and therapeutic markers in lung cancer .
Interestingly , Dss1 expression was also shown to be elevated in skin papillomas relative to normal skins , and further increased in squamous cell malignancies .
We demonstrate here that a transcript is initiated within the U3 region and that its presence correlates with the trans - activating activity .
Expression of Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 in primary tumors and lymph node metastases in oral squamous cell carcinoma .
The results show that , without affecting in vitro human PMN viability and chemokine - receptor expression , Hyp ( as stable dicyclohexylammonium salt ) was able to inhibit in a dose - dependent manner their chemotaxis and chemoinvasion ( IC50 = 1 microM for both ) ; this effect was associated with a reduced expression of the adhesion molecule CD11b by formyl - Met - Leu - Phe - stimulated neutrophils and block of LE - triggered activation of the gelatinase matrix metalloproteinase - 9 .
These results suggest that the role of mast cells in angiogenesis may be to enhance migration of the endothelial cells of growing capillaries .
The conclusion most consistent with the data is that the two MSRs are overlapping , spliced RNAs .
Similarly , the human INK4B locus encodes the p15 ( INK4B ) tumor suppressor and one alternatively spliced form , termed as p10 .
Transporters , enzymes , and enalapril removal in a rat ( CC531 - induced ) liver metastatic model .
The long latency of prostate cancer development provides an opportunity to intervene with agents of known mechanisms at various stages of disease progression .
We have modelled multiple stages of malignant transformation of human endothelial cells ( ECs ) by overexpressing the catalytic subunit of human telomerase ( hTERT ) , together with SV40 T antigen ( SV40T ) and oncogenic N - ras .
Here , we show that the N - acetyltransferase arrest - defect 1 protein ( ARD1 ) functions as a unique AR regulator in PCa cells .
A transgenic double - reporter strategy allowed us to demonstrate definitively that tumor bone marrow - derived endothelial cells arise by transdifferentiation of marrow progenitors rather than by cell fusion .
However , whether hemostatic factors contribute directly or indirectly to the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis remains uncertain .
The effects on endothelial cells occur in vitro at low drug concentrations , which do not affect microtubule gross morphology , do not cause microtubule bundling or microtubule loss and do not induce cell cycle arrest , apoptosis , or cell death .
In contrast , VEGF121 , which does not bind to NRP1 , did not support complex formation .
The transfer of apoptosis genes to tumors constitutes one of the most promising strategies for cancer gene therapy .
Physiological angiogenesis is regulated by various factors , including signaling through vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) receptors .
Coexpression of PIM - 1KD and PIM - 2KD abrogated growth factor - independent growth of Ba / F3 transformed by several PTKs , including BCR / ABL .
Vascular endothelial growth factor - C ( VEGF - C ) plays a crucial role in lymphangiogenesis , and is implicated to play an important role in lymph node metastasis .
RESULTS : Loss of heterozygosity of CDC4 / FBXW7 occurred in 32 % of EOGCs , and correlated with loss of expression in 26 % .
The apparent first - order rate constant for GSH decay increased progressively for L1210 cells expressing a range of GPX activities from approximately 5 % to 100 % , demonstrating that peroxide detoxification is strictly dependent on enzyme content .
Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) is strongly associated with the development of HCC in people chronically infected with the virus , but the mechanism of viral involvement remains unclear .
These results suggest the possibility that BV may exert an anti - tumor effect on human lung cancer .
Homeostatic functions of the p53 tumor suppressor : regulation of energy metabolism and antioxidant defense .
We further show that Stat3 is phosphorylated at S727 in 65 % of malignant prostate tissues ( n = 20 ) relative to 25 % of normal prostate tissues ( n = 4 ) .
a pilot study .
This observation indicates that VCSA expression at the cell surface is likely to be the result of the interaction between the viral src gene product pp60src with host cell gene ( s ) or gene product ( s ) , rather than the simple expression of this molecule at the cell surface .
Cox proportional hazards multivariate analysis ( MVA ) was used to determine the relation of MDM2 to the endpoints .
This is particularly true for inflammatory bowel diseases ( IBD ) , such as ulcerative colitis and Crohn ' s disease , which show a major increased risk for colorectal cancer .
The TGF - beta type II receptor in chronic myeloid leukemia : analysis of microsatellite regions and gene expression .
Neovascularization is an early and critical step in tumor development and progression .
In conclusion , aspirin and nimesulide could inhibit cell proliferation and induce apoptosis in esophageal squamous carcinoma cells .
In the immunohistochemical analysis of EGFR and TGF - alpha and Ki67 index , a significant increase was observed in Ca ex - PA , especially with adenocarcinoma , compared with PA and sialadenitis .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : An Affymetrix expression microarray was used to compare gene expression profiles between six pairs of TFs and normal fibroblasts from esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( ESCC ) .
The construction of animals doubly mutant for brca2 and the apoptotic gene tp53 ( p53 ) rescued brca2 - dependent sex reversal .
Despite an increase in the activation of these signal transducers , the mammary gland of females expressing exogenous Tsg101 developed normally throughout the reproductive cycle .
These new functions of p53 are providing interesting possibilities for the development of novel therapies .
Finally , we demonstrated that direct inhibition of key enzymes to glycogen metabolism and pentose phosphate pathways reduced HUVEC viability and migration .
Pathological analyses indicate that a significant large population of human ductal cancers may utilize the EGFR - GEP100 - Arf6 - AMAP1 pathway for their malignancy .
They code for proteins of 21 kDa , highly conserved in evolution , which belong to the superfamily of ras GTPases .
Lactate - dehydrogenase 5 is overexpressed in non - small cell lung cancer and correlates with the expression of the transketolase - like protein 1 .
This cell line is not invasive by nature and secretes moderate amounts of VEGF - C ; intrauterine injection of HEC1A cells into Balb / c nude mice resulted in uterine cancer with lymph node metastasis after 8 weeks .
Patients with hyperfibrinogenemia showed worse clinical outcome in T2 gastric cancer , however , there was no correlation of plasma fibrinogen level with prognosis in T3 / T4 gastric cancer .
BI - 1 ( Bax inhibitor - 1 ) , an apoptosis - inhibiting gene belonging to the Bcl - 2 protein family , plays an important role in mitochondrial apoptosis pathway to suppress Bax - induced apoptosis .
PURPOSE : The staging of colorectal cancer , therapeutic decision making in the management of early and advanced colorectal cancer , and dilemmas posed by drug - related toxicity are discussed .
This strategy may be of significant value in laying the foundation for a more explicit anti - tumor angiogenesis therapy .
Management of early and advanced colorectal cancer : therapeutic issues .
An immunohistochemical score based on the intensity of immunoreactivity and proportion of immunoreactive cells was established for each MMP and TIMP .
Eight randomly assigned 4 x 4 - cm2 pieces of two different meshes were fixed in the preperitoneal space with a centrally placed single suture .
The time courses of changes in MMP - 1 , bone growth factors ( TGF - beta1 and bFGF ) , and hGH , respectively , correlated significantly during the lengthening phase , indicating common regulatory pathways for these factors in distraction osteogenesis .
Homeobox genes have a strikingly conserved 61 - amino acid sequence , encoding DNA - binding domain .
Grape seed extract inhibits angiogenesis via suppression of the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway .
Inhibition of autophagy potentiates the antitumor effect of the multikinase inhibitor sorafenib in hepatocellular carcinoma .
METHODS : The authors evaluated plasma endostatin ( PE ) levels using an enzyme linked immunoassay in 71 patients with acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) and 43 patients with myelodysplastic syndrome ( MDS ) , and correlated PE with various clinical parameters .
A key role for the integrin alpha2beta1 in experimental and developmental angiogenesis .
Disruption of AR - ARD1 interactions may be a potent intervention for androgen - dependent PCa therapy .
Gastric cancer metastasized when ITCs were observed in the presence of VEGFR - 1 .
In a multivariate analysis , N - stage and vascular grade were not found to be independent prognostic factors , since they were strongly related to each other .
A similar ser120 - gly mutation in NME1 has been found in human neuroblastoma , suggesting that mutation in this region may be a general phenomenon related to tumor progression .
John ' s wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) , has emerged as key player not only in the antidepressant activity of the plant but also as an inhibitor of bacteria lymphocyte and tumor cell proliferation , and matrix proteinases .
Placental angiogenesis , which is physiologically normal , may serve as a general model of this process in other circumstances , such as tumor .
TTF - 1 staining is very reliable in discerning whether a brain metastasis has arisen from a pulmonary or nonpulmonary site , particularly when dealing with adenocarcinomas and large - cell carcinomas .
Effect of U - 995 , a potent shark cartilage - derived angiogenesis inhibitor , on anti - angiogenesis and anti - tumor activities .
PTTG overexpression correlated with lymph node metastasis ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Wnt signaling plays a critical role in regulating stem / progenitor cells in the mammary gland as well as other tissue compartments .
We show that transgenic expression of CDKs in the embryonic oral ectoderm is specifically retained in undifferentiated cells from the pars intermedia of the adenohypophysis .
Protective function of von Hippel - Lindau protein against impaired protein processing in renal carcinoma cells .
The E7 oncoprotein of bovine papillomavirus type 1 ( BPV - 1 ) is required for the full transformation activity of the virus .
FVIIa markedly decreased the number of cells with apoptotic morphology and prevented the DNA degradation as measured by means of TdT - mediated dUTP nick end labeling ( TUNEL ) .
2 - Methoxyestradiol ( 2ME2 ) is a natural compound with HIF - 1alpha inhibitory activity that is currently being evaluated in phase 1 and 2 clinical trials for advanced solid tumors and multiple myeloma .
In the current investigation , we show that p - XSC , but not an equivalent dose of SM , alters molecular targets and induces apoptosis in androgen - responsive LNCaP and androgen - independent LNCaP C4 - 2 human prostate cancer cells .
There is only one prior report describing rofecoxib treatment in a single haemophilia patient .
p53 does so through the induction of genes leading to growth arrest or apoptosis .
A5 - 1 inhibits the integrin - fibronectin interaction in a dose - dependent manner ( IC ( 50 ) ; 1 . 56 + / - 0 . 28 microM .
PEDF is an important negative regulator of angiogenic activity of aqueous humor .
Interestingly , the level of cyclin D3 protein , known as an activator of G ( 1 ) to S phase transition in the cell cycle , was aberrantly high in cells overexpressing PLD1 and PLD2 compared with control cells .
By SAGE ( serial analysis of gene expression ) analysis , we identified final sigma as a gene whose expression is 7 - fold lower in breast carcinoma cells than in normal breast epithelium .
Coexpression of vascular endothelial growth factor and p53 protein in squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus .
In this study , we found that elevated levels of ErbB - 3 expression did not occur in the absence of AP - 2gamma in a panel of human mammary epithelial and fibroblasts cell lines .
None of the tumors or the healthy breast in the tissues studied expressed Glut - 3 or Glut - 5 .
Hypoxia - induced gene expression in cancer cells has been linked to malignant transformation .
Accordingly , the rate of elimination of abnormal proteins was lower in cells lacking a functional VHL gene than in wtVHL - expressing cells .
These included 40 ( 56 % ) metastases from a primary lung carcinoma and 31 ( 44 % ) metastases from some nonpulmonary carcinoma .
Our aim was to compare the angiogenesis associated with subcutaneous adipose tissue ( SAT ) and visceral adipose tissue ( VAT ) from the same obese patients in an in vivo model .
Glucose deprivation enhanced death receptor - triggered formation of death - inducing signaling complex and early processing of procaspase - 8 .
Furthermore , the renal carcinoma cell lines expressed PAF - R .
By contrast , none of eight neoplastic lesions ( two adenoma and six adenocarcinoma ) of CBE stained for opticin .
Rat 6 cells are not transformed by treatment with the well - known carcinogens benzo [ a ] pyrene ( BP ) or N - methyl - N - nitro - N ' - nitrosoguanidine ( MNNG ) .
Invasion of the human melanoma cell line , BLM , was also attenuated by the anti - PAI - 1 monoclonal antibody MAI - 12 .
Increased glucose transporter protein expression may contribute to the increased uptake of 2 - [ 18F ] - fluoro - 2 - deoxy - D - glucose ( FDG ) by these tumors observed by positron emission tomography ( PET ) imaging .
In fact , p75 ( NTR ) depresses the VEGF - A / Akt / eNOS / NO pathway and additionally reduces the mRNA levels of ITGB1 [ beta ( 1 ) integrin ] , BIRC5 ( survivin ) , PTTG1 ( securin ) and VEZF1 .
However , the transfer of either the p16 or Rb gene to glioma cells results in cytostatic effect .
Together , we proposed that MOG alone or administered with other anticancer agents may provide a novel therapeutic strategy for leukemia .
The purpose of this study was to determine the level of agreement between pediatric dentists and endodontists at a pulp therapy symposium conjointly sponsored by the American Association of Endodontists ( AAE ) and the American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry ( AAPD ) on November 2 - 3 , 2007 .
All genes except those encoding angiotensinogen and epoxide hydrolase ( that were decreased ) , and 12 - lipoxygenase and vascular endothelial growth factor ( that showed no change ) , were significantly up - regulated in GK islets .
miRNA - 126 , an EC - restricted miRNA , regulates vascular integrity and developmental angiogenesis .
In addition , TNFalpha treatment alone led to increased malignant transformation of mouse embryo fibroblasts , which could be partially suppressed by antioxidants .
Activated platelets enhance ovarian cancer cell invasion in a cellular model of metastasis .
The underlying mechanisms were systematically investigated in vitro and in vivo .
The mice were treated by intratumoral injection of 2 x 10 ( 9 ) pfu Ad - mEndostatin .
Colon cancer overexpresses insulin - like growth factor 1 ( IGF1 ) and insulin - like growth factor 1 receptor ( IGF1 - R ) , as compared with normal or adenomatous mucosa , and it has been postulated that colorectal cancer cells depend on the IGF1 / IGF1 - R pathway for their growth and progression .
Implications for a possible role of tumor cell / host TGF - beta interactions in human breast cancer progression .
BMECs transfected with hTERT alone were functionally and phenotypically normal .
Immunohistochemical and in situ hybridization studies revealed the presence of IGF - I / II - IGF - IR ligands and mRNA transcripts in embryonic lungs as early as 4 wk gestation .
Hypoxia - inducible factor 1 ( HIF - 1 ) activates vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) gene expression in hypoxic / ischemic tissue .
Mutants of TEL that removed a binding site for the mSin3A corepressor but retained the ETS domain failed to repress stromelysin - 1 .
We could imagine that it also plays a role in adjuvant chemotherapy effectiveness since , perhaps not coincidentally , this is most beneficial for premenopausal node - positive patients .
In contrast , neither VEGF mRNA nor secreted protein was found in uninfected HUVECs or RASMCs or in cells infected with the control vector AdCMV . beta gal ( where beta gal is beta - galactosidase ) .
No AP - 1 expression was found 19 weeks after initiation .
CONCLUSIONS : These results suggest that the anti - angiogenic effects of U - 995 may be be due to interference with the proliferation and migration of HUVECs as well as inhibition of collagenolysis , thereby leading to inhibition of both angiogenesis and tumor cell growth .
Platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule ( PECAM ) - 1 has been previously implicated in endothelial cell migration ; additionally , anti - PECAM - 1 antibodies have been shown to inhibit in vivo angiogenesis .
These investigations demonstrate transformation of human ECs to an overtly malignant phenotype .
Use of DNA microarray and small animal positron emission tomography in preclinical drug evaluation of RAF265 , a novel B - Raf / VEGFR - 2 inhibitor .
Here , we investigate S727 phosphorylation of Stat3 and its subsequent effects in prostate cancer development , independent of Y705 phosphorylation , using mutated Stat3 in the human prostate cancer cell line LNCaP .
RESULTS : Most tumors less than 35 mm3 were white but tumors greater than 35 mm3 were pink and had a vascularized capsule .
Factors including thrombin and fibrin , which are downstream of the coagulation cascade activated by TF , also contribute to atherosclerosis .
Tissue reaction of TET epithelial scaffolds immersed with the medium was evaluated on the chick embryo chorioallantoic membrane .
Although the exact endpoints are unknown , the large 10 - kb species spans the entire ICP4 homolog region .
Attenuation of the proangiogenic effects by neutralizing VEGF antibodies suggests VEGF play a key role in the acquisition of the angiogenic phenotype in oral cancer cells .
However , PC12 cells do not precisely reflect the pathogenesis of malignant cells .
Patients with liver and / or bone metastases had significantly higher median concentrations of S - 100beta , IL - 6 and IL - 10 than those with only skin , nodal and / or lung involvement .
Notch signaling regulates intestinal development , homeostasis and tumorigenesis , but its precise downstream mechanism remains largely unknown .
Insulin treatment also increased VEGF protein levels in conditioned RPE cell media in a dose - dependent manner with a median effective concentration of 5 nM .
The INK4 family of proteins negatively regulates cell cycle progression at the G ( 1 ) - S transition by inhibiting cyclin - dependent kinases .
[ Interleukin - 18 and new drugs . Protective effect against tumor growth and infections ] .
Vasodilator - stimulated phosphoprotein ( VASP ) is highly expressed in vascular endothelial cells , where it has been implicated in cellular reorganization during angiogenesis , as well as in endothelial retraction and changes in vessel permeability .
With a p53 - null cell line ( EU - 4 ) , although doxorubicin treatment arrested cells in G ( 2 ) / M , survivin expression was unchanged , and cells underwent only limited apoptosis .
Promoter hypermethylation of APC was observed in 54 . 65 per cent ( 47 of 86 ) of cases .
Immune complex kinase assays in the simian virus 40 system were performed by incubation of immunoprecipitates containing tumor antigens with [ gamma - 32P ] ATP , followed by analysis of any phosphoacceptor proteins .
Matrix metalloproteinase activity and immunohistochemical profile of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 during human dermal wound healing .
Prospective and retrospective case - controlled experimental designs are not suitable for testing the above hypothesis .
Heparin - steroid conjugates : new angiogenesis inhibitors with antitumor activity in mice .
The induction of Ets - 1 in ECs after denudation was regulated transcriptionally , and humeral factors released from injured ECs might not be responsible .
METHODS : We studied VEGF expression of 85 CML patients ( median age 50 years , range 16 - 75 years ) .
Here we report that the chemotherapeutic drug doxorubicin , a DNA - damaging agent , activates a p53 - survivin signaling pathway inducing cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ) .
Insulin - like growth factor 1 receptor enhances invasion and induces resistance to apoptosis of colon cancer cells through the Akt / Bcl - x ( L ) pathway .
After staining samples for alpha - SMA , their expression was extracted and quantified as a relative percentage by computer - assisted image analysis .
Clinical significance of plasma endostatin in acute myeloid leukemia / myelodysplastic syndrome .
Our results suggest that this small peptide functions as an angiogenic inhibitor by inhibiting VEGF function through a non - VEGF binding mechanism .
We have examined the tyrosine phosphorylation of a major cellular protein of Mr 36 , 000 in cells infected with a panel of partially transforming mutants of Rous sarcoma virus .
Serum VEGF levels were higher in patients with PDR than in those without DR ( 219 + / - 99 vs . 139 + / - 98 pg / ml , p less than 0 . 001 ) ; however , patients with poor and good CCC had similar VEGF levels .
Rofecoxib as adjunctive therapy for haemophilic arthropathy .
In these breast cancers activated Akt fails to inactivate and re - localize FOXO3a to the cytoplasm , and nuclear - targeted FOXO3a does not induce cell death or cell cycle arrest .
Cytokines and growth factors induce tyrosine phosphorylation of signal transducers and activators of transcription ( STATs ) that directly activate gene expression .
Bovine lactoferrin , a multifunctional glycoprotein , has been shown to strongly inhibit development of azoxymethane ( AOM ) - induced rat colon tumors .
s - VEGF significantly correlated with the tumor volume obtained by a three - dimensional measurement ( r = 0 . 802 , P less than 0 . 0001 ) .
Inhibition of this pathway may provide clinical benefits to cancer patients .
These effects translated into a 2 . 2 - to 229 . 0 - fold increase in the cytotoxic activity of ara - C against clonogenic leukemic cells after GM - CSF or IL - 3 pretreatment .
Pten signaling in gliomas .
Rise in insulin concentrations over baseline in the first 5 minutes of the glucose tolerance test were also significantly greater in dogs with lymphoma ( P = 0 . 021 ) .
The induction occurs within 1 h from FGF - 2 treatment and is mediated by ERK1 / 2 pathway , which in turn stimulates expression of the early growth response - 1 ( Egr - 1 ) transcription factor .
In contrast , abnormal staining was frequently found even in intramucosal carcinoma of undifferentiated - type tumours , suggesting an apparent difference in the onset of E - cadherin - catenin complex abnormality between the two cancer types .
It focuses on the role of IL - 18 modulation in tumours , infections and autoimmune and inflammatory diseases .
As LVI is a strong predictive and prognostic marker , the monoclonal antibody D2 - 40 has the potential to play a significant role in pathological routine workup of breast tumors .
The anti - apoptotic protein c - FLIP ( cellular Flice - like inhibitory protein ) , which has been shown to inhibit Fas - mediated apoptosis at the DISC , was down - regulated following AdGFPFasL ( TET ) treatment prompting us to investigate its role in inhibiting CH - 11 - induced cell death .
p53 mutation heterogeneity in cancer .
Thus , antiapoptotic mechanisms have to be operative in neuroblastoma cells that antagonize the proapoptotic effects of N - myc .
The role of p53 in pigmentation , tanning and melanoma .
We hypothesize that neuroblastoma cells will interact with host tissues to release mediators that affect apoptosis .
Our results strongly suggest that estradiol has a critical role in the regulation of IL - 8 in normal human breast tissue and human breast cancer .
The tumor may present with widespread metastases that are unresponsive to aggressive treatment .
Furthermore , compared with similar fusion proteins in which uteroglobin was not used , the use of uteroglobin improved properties of solubility and stability .
Immunohistochemical analysis suggested a specific activation or differentiation of resident macrophages by apoptotic cells .
Receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) analysis gave 0 . 83 and 0 . 43 ROC area values for urine IL - 8 / Cr and serum IL - 8 , respectively .
Cancer metastasis : negative regulation by an invasion - suppressor complex .
These findings identify c - MYC as an important molecular switch that alters the cellular response to OSM - mediated signaling from tumor suppressive to tumor promoting .
Reconstitution of MCF - 7 cell extracts with procaspase - 3 corrects this defect , resulting in an efficient and complete processing of procaspase - 9 .
PURPOSE : Head and neck squamous cell carcinomas have been reported to overexpress hypoxia - inducible factor ( HIF ) - 1alpha , a transcription factor that promotes expression of angiogenesis factors and resistance to programmed and therapy - induced cell death .
Jun N terminal kinase ( JNK1 ) and p38 kinase are activated by a variety of stress stimuli .
Cells cannot survive extended severe ischemia but may be able to adapt to a moderate condition where diffusion to and from bordering nonischemic regions sustains vital functions .
BACKGROUND : The fate of patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia of type II A ( MEN II A ) is determined by medullary thyroid carcinoma , which occurs in all cases .
Mice with tumor xenograft and experimental metastasis model were used to evaluate effects on tumor growth and metastasis .
Furthermore , in cultured ovarian carcinoma cells , Western blot revealed that PPARgamma and COX - 2 expression was regulated conversely as a result of stimulation by 15 - deoxy - Delta ( 12 , 14 ) PGJ ( 2 ) ( 15 - PGJ ( 2 ) ) , a PPARgamma activator .
The purpose of this study was to immunohistochemically investigate the correlation between the desmoplastic reaction and the clinicopathology of invasive breast cancer .
METHODOLOGY / PRINCIPAL FINDINGS : Examination of FOXO3a and phosphorylated - Akt ( P - Akt ) expression in breast cancer tissue microarrays showed nuclear FOXO3a was associated with lymph node positivity ( p = 0 . 052 ) , poor prognosis ( p = 0 . 014 ) , and P - Akt expression in invasive ductal carcinoma .
In a first step , proteins were selected which showed a relationship to lymph node involvement .
IFN - alpha / beta signalling itself does not activate p53 ; rather , it contributes to boosting p53 responses to stress signals .
To test the hypothesis that 20 - HETE increases endothelial cell ( EC ) proliferation via vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , we studied the effects of WIT003 [ 20 - hydroxyeicosa - 5 ( Z ) , 14 ( Z ) - dienoic acid ] , a 20 - HETE analog on human macrovascular or microvascular EC .
Insufficient angiogenesis occurs in diseases such as coronary artery disease , stroke and chronic wounds .
The data indicate that endosialin is strongly expressed by pericytes during periods of active angiogenesis during embryonic and tumor development .
Autocrine angiotensin system regulation of bovine aortic endothelial cell migration and plasminogen activator involves modulation of proto - oncogene pp60c - src expression .
Each bone was placed in masseter muscle separately .
Cancer progression and p53 .
At this time , the cells ' growth is arrested at very high density , and no differentiated morphologic characteristics are observed .
A total of 28 patients between 3 and 37 years of age were treated for a total of 42 courses of rofecoxib treatment .
Metronomic 5 - fluorouracil , oxaliplatin and irinotecan in colorectal cancer .
Compared to controls , co - culture of MDA - MB - 231 cells with stromal or osteoblastic cells induced an increase in number of osteoclasts and TRAP activities .
Repression of E - cadherin by transcriptional regulators such as Snail or Twist emerges as one critical step driving EMT , and this stage is currently being molecularly linked with many of the new players .
CD40 expression on human lung cancer correlates with metastatic spread .
We also observe that SHP - 2 knockdown impairs the dopamine - regulated inhibition of VEGF - induced phosphorylation of VEGFR - 2 and , subsequently , Src phosphorylation and migration .
Thus , nicked beta2GPI exerts dual effects on angiogenesis , that is , nicked beta2GPI promotes angiogenesis in the presence of AS4 . 5 , whereas nicked beta2GPI inhibits angiogenesis at concentrations high enough to neutralize AS4 . 5 .
Nevertheless , using an miR - BHRF1 - 1 and miR - BHRF1 - 3 double mutant , we could directly assess and confirm the contribution of miR - BHRF1 - 2 to B - cell transformation .
DMBA maxima were significantly higher than those of DMBA + radiation .
The aim of this study was to ascertain the potential usefulness of the antiangiogenic compound linomide for treatment of von Hippel - Lindau ( VHL ) - related tumors .
Although anti - VEGF therapies have clearly demonstrated antitumor efficacy in various malignancies , especially when combined with conventional cytotoxic chemotherapy , their mechanism of action is not fully understood .
Excluding N - stage , vascular grade was the only independent prognostic factor ( P = 0 . 007 ) .
Immunohistochemistry revealed that the Hedgehog receptor Patched was localized to the tumor stroma and that B16F0 cells expressed Shh peptide .
Potentiation of camptothecin - induced apoptosis by TRAIL appears dependent on cooperation between extrinsic and intrinsic pathways , as documented by loss of the sensitization to apoptosis following reduction of caspase 8 after small interfering RNA transfection .
We propose that the upregulation of the secreted FGF - BP protein during early phases of pancreas and colon cancer could make this protein a possible serum marker indicating the presence of high - risk premalignant lesions .
The remaining SVLT mutants presented different degrees of ability to inhibit differentiation ( as shown by the expression of tissue - specific markers in transformants ) .
To grow , invade and metastasize , a treacherous society between cancer and host cells must be formed , and this association provides novel and effective clinical targets for cancer control and prevention .
CONCLUSION : This angiogenesis assay based on human fat tissue uses three - dimensionally intact human tissue .
Loss of tumor suppressor proteins , which function as brakes on cell growth , migration , or cell survival , was recognized early on as an important mechanism for initiation and progression of melanoma .
The objective of this article is to explain radiologic patterns of benign and malignant breast lesions ( masses , microcalcifications ) based on histological correlations .
The kinase reactions showed preference for ATP and MgCl2 instead of GTP or MnCl2 .
Angiogenic activity of the aqueous humor was quantified by measuring its effect on the migration of capillary endothelial cells .
Western blot analyses showed an increase in levels of activated caspases ( caspase - 3 and - 7 ) and of cleaved poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase ( PARP ) by magnolol .
Combined topical fluconazole and corticosteroid treatment for experimental Candida albicans keratomycosis .
Five patients are still responding to therapy .
The selective antimetastatic agents p - ( 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 1 - triazeno ) benzoic acid potassium salt ( DM - COOK ) , 5 - ( 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 1 - triazeno ) imidazole - 4 - carboxamide ( DTIC ) and ( + / - ) 1 , 2 - di ( 3 , 5 - dioxopiperazin - 1 - yl ) propane ( ICRF - 159 ) have been shown to markedly depress the formation of spontaneous hematogenous metastases in mice bearing s . c .
Monoclonal antibody targeted therapy directed against EGF - R or Her - 2 / neu , the use of anti - sense oligonucleotides and oligodeoxynucleotides , and the application of tyrosine kinase and protein C - kinase inhibitors are currently being investigated .
Serum and urine levels of interleukin - 8 in patients with non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma .
Furthermore , this decreased expression was also observed in the other myeloproliferative disorders , polycythemia rubra vera ( PRV ) and essential thrombocythemia ( ET ) .
The Met proto - oncogene mesenchymal to epithelial cell conversion .
CONCLUSION : c - kit protein is an important diagnostic marker of gastrointestinal stromal tumor .
In vivo studies , CT26 cancer cells were implanted into BALB / c mice and groups of mice were treated with vehicle , DATS ( 10 and 50 mg / kg of body weight ) .
Four human cervical cancer cell lines were treated for 24 h with various concentration of paclitaxel , and the sensitivity was analysed by an MTT assay .
Estimated and true 5 - 10 year overall survival rates from first line antiestrogen and distant metastases were higher than previously reported in a similar population .
According to these different functions , the role of c - Myc protein in cellular sensitivity to anti - cancer drugs is controversial .
At this writing , heparin appears to be the principal mast cell factor responsible for this effect on capillary endothelial cells .
When the patients were divided into two groups according to their alpha - SMA expression using a cutoff point at the mean value of 8 . 48 % , the high alpha - SMA group had a significantly poorer overall survival rate ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
The latter effect is called reperfusion injury and can cause as much damage as the ischemia .
Proteomic comparison of nasopharyngeal cancer cell lines C666 - 1 and NP69 identifies down - regulation of annexin II and beta2 - tubulin for nasopharyngeal carcinoma .
On the contrary , metronomic 5 - FU + L - OHP + CPT - 11 therapy did not affect the microvascular count .
Interleukins ( ILs ) may mediate regression or progression of cancer .
Further tumour inhibition studies showed that STX243 was also active against MCF - 7 paclitaxel - resistant tumours .
In addition , densities of the newly formed bones at 16th week were studied .
We have investigated the putative role of rho proteins from Aplysia californica as transforming GTPases utilizing the wild - type and a Val - 14 mutant , equivalent to the oncogenic Val - 12 mutation of ras genes found in animal and human tumors .
Comparison between cells revealed different apoptosis kinetics : accumulation of cells in sub - G1 phase and poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase cleavage occurred earlier in LoVo - mycANS .
While many genetic alterations have been identified in melanoma , the relevant molecular events that contribute to disease progression are poorly understood .
Therefore , in the situation without peritoneal involvement , hyperfibrinogenemia is a useful biomarker to predict the possible metastasis and worse clinical outcome in T2 gastric cancer .
Brain pericytes in culture had higher levels of endosialin / TEM 1 than TEMs - 2 , - 3 , - 4 , - 5 , - 7 , and - 8 .
Ablation of ADAM - 9 in fibroblasts almost completely abolished these cellular interactions and melanoma cell invasion in vitro .
However , co - culture of these cancer cells with stromal or osteoblastic cells induced RANKL mRNA expression and decreased OPG mRNA expression .
Therefore , we used a targeted mutant mouse model to test the hypothesis that monoallelic deletion of beclin 1 promotes tumorigenesis .
The increased energy expended by the host to synthesize substrate , which is utilized by the tumor , is a potential cause of cancer cachexia .
Regulation of tumor angiogenesis by thrombospondin - 1 .
Immunohistochemical analysis revealed Fas - positive cells and apoptotic cells preferentially within the proximal colon region , clearly at the site of bovine lactoferrin - mediated tumor inhibition .
We have found that sanguinarine alters the morphology and reduces the viability of MG - 63 and SaOS - 2 human osteosarcoma cell lines in concentration - and time - dependent manner .
An intracellular complex containing NRP1 and KDR was immunoprecipitated from EC by anti - NRP1 antibodies only in the presence of VEGF165 .
The beclin 1 autophagy gene is monoallelically deleted in 40 - 75 % of cases of human sporadic breast , ovarian , and prostate cancer .
In contrast , tube formation was significantly reduced by SMI496 , a beta1 I - like domain inhibitor and by function - blocking anti - alpha2beta1 but not - alpha1beta1 antibodies .
Prevention of hepatic tumor metastases in rats with herpes viral vaccines and gamma - interferon .
Stimulation of endothelial cell migration by vascular permeability factor / vascular endothelial growth factor through cooperative mechanisms involving the alphavbeta3 integrin , osteopontin , and thrombin .
BACKGROUND : SPARC ( secreted protein , acidic and rich in cysteine ) is closely related with the progress , invasion and metastasis of malignant tumor and angiogenesis .
Our results confirm a close link between the two metabolic enzymes and indicate an alteration in the glucose metabolism in the process of malignant transformation .
In 3 days , 1 week , 2 weeks , 3 weeks and 4 weeks after surgery , the MVD of test group was significantly higher than that of control group .
However , agents such as verteporfin , a second - generation benzoporphyrin derivative , appear to be free from the extensive phototoxicity that limited the success of previous agents .
Extracellular matrix as a bioactive material for soft tissue reconstruction .
From 35 to 100 % of the whole amount of ATP resynthesized via glycolysis is utilized for transport purposes .
However , during each phase of the disease , low levels of TGF - beta RII were detected when compared with the hematopoietic cells of normal donors .
Microscopic technique for the detection of nitric oxide - dependent angiogenesis in an animal model .
However , there is little information about their possible roles in non - small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) .
Current therapy for glioma is suboptimal .
We suggest that the rarity of observed BRCA1 mutations in sporadic breast and ovarian cancer is due to the greater likelihood of BRCA1 inactivation by non - mutational mechanisms such as methylation .
Similar methods applied to human ovarian and colon tumors confirmed endosialin expression by pericytes .
The portion of the LTR responsible for trans activation was mapped by deletions to lie within the U3 region .
These data thus indicate that the effects on hemostasis of the drugs examined can contribute only marginally to their antimetastatic action , since more pronounced effects on hemostasis have been shown to be required to significantly affect metastasis formation .
Similarly to other members of this family , Id - 1 is involved in the repression of cell differentiation and activation of cell growth .
Systemic treatment with L - NAME inhibited growth of adenocarcinoma significantly but was accompanied by impaired renal function .
This encourages the performance of further studies to analyse the potential impact of 123I - IMT SPET on the therapeutic management of patients with brain tumours .
This suggests that expression of DR antigens also can be modulated post - transcriptionally .
For efficacy studies , nude mice bearing orthotopically implanted tumors derived from breast cancer cell line MDA - MB - 435 were treated with galectin - 3C or a vehicle control i . m . twice daily for 90 days .
The frequency of ITC in bone marrow was significantly associated with the stage of disease by ANOVA ( P < 0 . 01 ) .
Impaired apoptosis of pulmonary endothelial cells is associated with intimal proliferation and irreversibility of pulmonary hypertension in congenital heart disease .
Expression of GTP or GDP - bound Rab5a mutants block activated VEGFR2 trafficking and degradation .
This chapter focuses on the morphology of blood vessel formation in and around the early central nervous system ( CNS , i . e . , brain and spinal cord ) of avian embryos .
Distinct role of PLCbeta3 in VEGF - mediated directional migration and vascular sprouting .
Taken together , our findings suggest that ICAM - 3 stimulates cancer cell migration / invasion via ICAM - 3 / Akt / CREB / MMP pathway regardless of p53 and PTEN status , and this reflects the possibility that ICAM - 3 could be considered as a candidate for anti - cancer drug development and as a cancer diagnostic marker .
RAF265 , a novel B - Raf / vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 2 inhibitor , was evaluated in the preclinical setting for its ability to inhibit the uptake of PET tracers in the A375M ( B - Raf ( V600E ) ) human melanoma cell line .
The ras - encoded proteins are similar to regulatory G - proteins and are candidates for the unknown G - protein that modulates phosphatidylinositol ( PI ) turnover .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : c - erbB2 , evaluated by immunohistochemistry in 145 of 173 patients randomly assigned to 2 - year adjuvant tamoxifen or no further therapy , was considered overexpressed if greater than 10 % of the cells showed specific membrane staining .
Although PTHrP is frequently expressed by breast tumors and other solid cancers , its effects on tumor progression are unclear .
We show here that constitutively active STAT3 acts as a master regulator of cell metabolism , inducing aerobic glycolysis and down - regulating mitochondrial activity both in primary fibroblasts and in STAT3 - dependent tumour cell lines .
Moreover , in the presence of glucose , the malate - citrate cycle did not appear to play an important role in the glutaminolytic process .
This pathway has been implicated to play a role in the pathogenesis of cancer and in embryonic blood vessel development .
These diagrams show the relative rates of glycolysis , the tricarboxylic acid cycle , electron transport , and the malate - aspartate shuttle in these tumors .
Down syndrome critical region gene 1 ( DSCR - 1 ) short variant ( DSCR - 1s ) is an inhibitor of calcineurin / NFAT signaling encoded by exons 4 - 7 of DSCR1 .
Thus , the differential regulation of hTERT and VEGF in p63 - positive breast carcinomas may contribute to the clinically more aggressive behavior of these neoplasms .
Mitogen - activated protein kinase kinase signaling promotes growth and vascularization of fibrosarcoma .
Fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 - positive fibroblasts provide a suitable microenvironment for tumor development and progression in esophageal carcinoma .
By live videomicroscopy , we confirmed that the vessels were largely nonfunctional in the absence of alpha2beta1 integrin .
Although the exact mechanisms underlying the Warburg effect are unclear , the existing evidence suggests that increased glycolysis plays an important role in support malignant behavior of cancer cells .
These studies indicate that Shh peptide produced by melanoma cells induces Patched expression in fibroblasts .
In addition , LMP1 plays pleiotropic roles in cell growth arrest , differentiation , and apoptosis , depending on the background of the target cells .
These properties make such agents potentially useful as adjunctive therapy in haemophilia .
Treatment of wild - type ( wt ) p53 ALL cells ( EU - 3 cell line ) with doxorubicin caused accumulation of p53 , resulting in dramatic down - regulation of survivin , depletion of cells in G ( 2 ) / M , and apoptosis ( increased sub - G ( 1 ) compartment ) .
All courses were evaluated for safety and 31 for efficacy .
Under physiological conditions , angiogenesis is regulated by local balance between endogenous stimulators and inhibitors of this process .
We observed a significantly increased risk of lymph node metastasis associated with the FAS - 1377 GA or AA polymorphism [ odds ratio ( OR ) = 4 . 16 , 95 % confidence interval ( CI ) = 1 . 10 to 15 . 74 ; P = 0 . 036 ] .
Here , we examined the function of c - Ski in human diffuse - type gastric carcinoma OCUM - 2MLN cells .
Agents that inhibit Hsp90 function hold significant promise in cancer therapy .
The application of molecular technology may play an important role for the differential diagnosis between synchronous primary carcinomas and a single carcinoma with metastasis .
Specific miRNAs ( angiomiRs ) have recently been shown to regulate angiogenesis in vivo .
The development of carcinoma was examined in male Wistar rats ( n = 120 ) exposed to N - methyl - N ' - nitro - N - nitrosoguanidine ( MNNG ) in the drinking water ( 83 micrograms / ml ) for 16 weeks .
METHODS : This review outlines and compares the latest development of these strategies , with emphasis on aflibercept , a novel decoy fusion protein of domain 2 of VEGFR - 1 and domain 3 of VEGFR - 2 with the Fc fragment of IgG1 .
Taken together , our studies , based on a molecular imaging approach for semiquantitative detection of micrometastases , point to an important role of tumor lymphatics in the metastatic process of human prostate cancer .
We show that enhanced glycolysis is dependent on HIF - 1alpha up - regulation , while reduced mitochondrial activity is HIF - 1alpha - independent and likely caused by STAT3 - mediated down - regulation of mitochondrial proteins .
Phospholipase D ( PLD ) has been suggested to play an important role in a variety of cellular functions .
Increased expression of specific protein tyrosine phosphatases in human breast epithelial cells neoplastically transformed by the neu oncogene .
Adenovirus - mediated p53 gene transfer is ineffective in causing apoptosis in glioma cells that retain wild - type p53 genotype or overexpress the p21 protein .
RESULTS : In all , 67 vascular abnormalities were found by indocyanine green angiography and only 22 by fluorescein angiography ; this finding was statistically significant ( P less than 0 . 0001 ) .
Apoptosis was further measured by DNA fragmentation and microscope examination .
The cortex within 100 microns of the capsule had little vascularization .
Bovine capillary endothelial cells are also stimulated to actively migrate when exposed to EGF in vitro .
RESULTS : In lymphomatous tissue , [ 18F ] FDG uptake rates were similar in overnight fasting and euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp ( 38 + / - 10 versus 41 + / - 9 mumol / 100 g / minute , not significant ) , whereas glucose uptake in skeletal muscle was increased by insulin ( 1 . 7 + / - 0 . 2 versus 3 . 8 + / - 0 . 5 mumol / 100 g / minute , P = 0 . 012 ) .
Extensive regulation contributes to normal growth control , abrogation of regulatory controls contributes to uncontrolled growth as seen with erb B transformation and EGF receptor gene amplification in human tumors .
Energy supply of the mitotic cell cycle and the Na + / H + - antiport in ascites tumors .
Vascular histomorphometry was carried out in two different areas in the distraction gap : ( 1 ) in the first and ( 2 ) in the second 1 mm area from the osteotomy line , representing the oldest and younger new - bone area , respectively .
In this study , we show that Tsg101 is highly expressed in a subset of invasive human breast cancers .
With the discovery that TGFbeta1 was a potent growth inhibitor of epithelial cells , and the identification of inactivating mutations within the TGFbeta1 signaling pathway in cancers it became clear that TGFbeta1 signaling is a tumor suppressor pathway for early stages of cancer .
In addition , serum concentration of the angiogenesis inhibitor , endostatin , decreased significantly after primary tumor removal .
Inhibition of c - Jun amino - terminal kinase ( JNK ) blocked type III collagen expression in LRP - 1 - deficient MEFs , suggesting regulation of JNK activity as a mechanism by which LRP - 1 controls mRNA expression .
Daily i . p . injections of HAH - cortisol into mice bearing s . c . sponge implants retarded vascularization of the sponge , and injections directly into the sponge abolished vascularization for as long as the injections were continued .
Therefore , understanding these signaling mechanisms may provide us with novel ways to develop strategies for treating clinical diseases induced by these cytokines .
OBJECTIVES : Recently , it has been reported that expression of the HRK gene was significantly reduced by hypermethylation in astrocytic tumors .
Comparisons of presymposium and postsymposium responses and between the 2 groups of attendees indicated that the pediatric dentistry and endodontic communities agree that formocresol will be replaced as a primary tooth pulpotomy agent , that mineral trioxide is the first choice to take its place , that IPT in primary teeth holds hope as a replacement for pulpotomy , and that IPT is an acceptable pulp therapy technique for cariously involved young permanent teeth .
Furthermore , we found that the potentiating effect of miR - BHRF1 - 2 on miR - BHRF1 - 3 synthesis can be reproduced with simple expression plasmids , provided that both miRNAs are processed from the same transcript .
Surprisingly , functional p53 was retained in vivo , even after transplantation , whereas explanted tumor cells displayed rapid allele loss in vitro .
TESTING THE HYPOTHESIS : Stimulation of dormant micrometastases by primary tumor removal is known to occur in animal models .
The Mr 64 , 000 enzyme could be extracted from viable cells ( presumably from the cell membrane ) by 2 % 1 - butanol .
The presence of activating mutations has been demonstrated in the TSH - R gene as well as in the Gs alpha protein gene in thyroid toxic adenoma resulting in the constitutive activation of the cAMP pathway and it has been hypothesised that these genetic alterations may play a causative role in the disease .
In cell culture , the compound 317615 2HCl , a potent inhibitor of VEGF - stimulated HUVEC proliferation , was not very effective against MX - 1 breast cancer cells ( IC50 = 8 . 1 microM ) or SKOV - 3 ovarian carcinoma cells ( IC50 = 9 . 5 microM ) .
Vaccination is associated with enhancement of splenocyte - mediated tumoricidal activity , whereas the effect of gammaIFN is mediated by KC .
There was negative correction between KISS1 and MMP - 9 protein expression ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
Treatment with pharmacological inhibitors and small interfering RNAs reveal that induction and activation of Sp1 , HIF1alpha , and Stat3 facilitate their nuclear localization and binding to their specific motifs of the VEGF promoter and induce VEGF expression via two independent pathways , DCN / EGFR / phosphoinositide - 3 kinase / AKT and DCN / EGFR / ERK1 / 2 , respectively , in DCN synthesizing MCE cells .
Allergen - induced respiratory inflammation facilitates and / or elicits the extravasation of proinflammatory leukocytes by well - understood mechanisms that mediate the movement of multiple cell types .
At other times , both the metastases and the primary tumor may spontaneously regress without treatment .
In addition to giving a historical perspective on HTLV - 1 and other retrovirus research , this paper discusses the origin of HTLV - 1 ; the modes of transmission and global epidemiology of HTLV - 1 infection ; the genome of HTLV - 1 and the mechanism of HTLV - 1 - induced leukemogenesis ; the role of HTLV - 1 in other diseases , and recent breakthroughs in ATL therapy .
The accumulation was inhibited with a nonmetabolizable glucose analog , 2 - deoxy - d - glucose , through the suppression of radiation - induced phosphorylation of Akt in the reoxygenated regions .
CONCLUSION : The transfection of LMP1 can increase the expression of MMP - 9 in CNE1 cells .
We propose that cytolytic effector and related proteins produced by putative NK and some CD8 + CD56 + postthymic T - cell lymphomas , probably in conjunction with other mechanisms , may effect massive tumor cell apoptosis .
PURPOSE : We investigated the global gene expression in a large panel of pancreatic endocrine tumors ( PETs ) aimed at identifying new potential targets for therapy and biomarkers to predict patient outcome .
With K562 cells Glut - 1 appeared as a broad band of 50 - 60 kDa , whereas with U937 and HL60 cells a diffuse band was observed at approximately 55 kDa .
In situ fluorescent end labeling was used to label apoptotic cells .
Subsequently this activity was separated into TGFbeta and TGFalpha an EGF receptor ligand .
Thus , our results provide the first evidence that , in human breast carcinoma cells and in rat mammary carcinomas that have an induced increase in neu expression , a consistent and substantial increase in the expression of specific PTPases occurs .
The effect of perfluorocarbon - based artificial oxygen carriers on tissue - engineered trachea .
BACKGROUND : The MDM2 oncoprotein promotes p53 degradation via ubiquitin , establishing negative feedback control of p53 and consequently affecting cell cycle arrest and apoptosis .
ACA treatment resulted in changes in morphology and a dose - dependent suppression of cell viability .
This contrasts with recent evidence suggesting that the Wave complex may function as an invasion suppressor in epithelial cancers .
The mean final visual acuity in eyes with higher refractive error at baseline ( greater than - 17 diopters ) was significantly better ( P = 0 . 014 ) than that in eyes with lower refractive error ( - 6 to - 10 diopters ) .
The amount of conjugated amine group onto the microspheres was 1 . 93 + / - 0 . 01 nmol / mg - microspheres , while the amount of heparin was 95 . 8 pmol / mg - microspheres .
Western blot was performed to detect the effect of curcumin on the expression of uPA .
CONCLUSIONS : We have found that patients with RDEB have elevated levels of bFGF , which may contribute to increased fibroblast collagenase and the development of squamous cell carcinoma .
Normal functionality of exogenous Tsg101 was tested by rescuing the survival of Tsg101 - deficient mammary epithelial cells in conditional knockout mice .
The expression of Merlin protein was not associated with the pathological type , gender , P - TNM stage , differentiation and lymph node metastasis ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
CONCLUSION : Loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 appears to play a role in both EOGC and conventional gastric carcinogenesis , and c - myc overexpression is likely to be an important oncogenic consequence of CDC4 / FBXW7 loss .
Microsatellite regions in the type II transforming growth factor - beta receptor ( TGF - beta RII ) gene appear to be targets for mutation in some cancers displaying microsatellite instability ( replication error phenotype , RER + ) .
The compound was orally bioavailable ( 31 % after a single 10 mg kg ( - 1 ) dose ) and resistant to metabolism .
Systemic administration of VEGF or LPS in adult mice resulted in cyclosporine A - sensitive reactivation of the DSCR1s promoter and endogenous gene expression in a subset of organs , including the heart and brain .
Our results indicate that TLX is involved in glioma stem cell genesis and represents a potential therapeutic target for this type of malignancy .
The tumour growth inhibition efficacy , antiangiogenic potential and pharmacokinetics of STX243 were examined using four in vivo models .
From in vivo experiments using new methods such as the rabbit cornea , it is now becoming clear that the growth of a capillary involves an ordered sequence of events that includes lysis of the basement membrane of a parent venule , directional migration of capillary endothelial cells toward the angiogenic stimulus , lumen formation , development of branches , and anastomosis of the tip of one tube with another to form a loop .
Adipose tissue layered on CAM stimulated angiogenesis .
Furthermore , Trib1 by itself is a novel myeloid oncogene , enhancing phosphorylation of ERK , resulting in inhibition of apoptosis .
Recent connections between glucose metabolism and resistance to apoptosis provide a compelling rationale for targeting metabolic changes in cancer .
[ Altered expression of PTEN gene and LOH of its epigenetic microsatellite in gastric carcinoma ] .
Treatment of ovarian cancer cell lines with recombinant LL - 37 stimulated proliferation , chemotaxis , invasion and matrix metalloproteinase expression .
IL - 12 inhibition of endothelial cell functions and angiogenesis depends on lymphocyte - endothelial cell cross - talk .
BACKGROUND : Inflammation followed by fibrosis is a component of islet dysfunction in both rodent and human type 2 diabetes .
Betulin induces mitochondrial cytochrome c release associated apoptosis in human cancer cells .
Nitric oxide ( NO ) plays an important role in maintaining vascular homeostasis .
These functions include the first stages of sprouting in angiogenesis , cell migration following wounding , and vascular permeability .
During these processes , proteolytic activities of tumor and stromal cells modify the extracellular matrix to produce a microenvironment suitable for their growth and migration .
A Whipple procedure led to a complete resolution of these symptoms and a return of an elevated stomatostatin level to normal .
Robo1 and Robo4 interact and share molecules such as Slit2 , Mena and Vilse , a Cdc42 - GAP .
These results strongly suggested that the BI - 1 gene might play a crucial role in neoplastic genesis and development .
These findings suggest that PA through protease cascade plays a role in tumor invasion and metastasis .
In addition to direct effects on mammary epithelial cells , including decreased proliferation and induction of apoptosis , CLA may exert its effects indirectly by inhibiting the differentiation of mammary stromal cells to an endothelial cell type .
Vimentin was expressed preferentially in tumor cells of high - grade ductal breast carcinomas ( 15 of 28 histologic grade 3 vs . 0 of 40 grades 1 and 2 ) .
We conclude that anti - angiogenic action of thalidomide is due to direct inhibitory action on VEGF secretion and capillary microvessel formation as well as immunomodulatory influence on EA . hy 926 cells migration and adhesion .
Reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) produced in the course of cellular oxidative phosphorylation , and by activated phagocytic cells during oxidative bursts , exceed the physiological buffering capacity and result in oxidative stress .
They were consistent with the concept of the existence of 2 pools of both lactate and pyruvate , of which 1 pool was closely connected with exogenous lactate and oxidative metabolism , and the other pool was closely related to glycolysis and disconnected from oxidative metabolism .
Cisplatin reduces endothelial cell migration via regulation of type 2 - matrix metalloproteinase activity .
Angiogenesis : initiation and control .
After inhibition of gluconeogenesis , the plasma glucose decreased and the blood lactate increased significantly more in TB than NTB animals .
Application of clonal analysis .
Treatment of mice bearing a small ear tumor with a humanized antivascular endothelial growth factor antibody prevented the down - regulation of leukocyte - vessel wall interactions inside the tumor vessels compared with the nontreated group .
Role of the interferon - inducible IFI16 gene in the induction of ICAM - 1 by TNF - alpha .
Another marker being investigated in the context of vascular dysfunction and coagulopathy is the endothelial microparticle ( EMP ) .
Tumour angiogenesis : its mechanism and therapeutic implications in malignant gliomas .
By introducing a cDNA library derived from rat embryonic fibroblast cells , we isolated several morphologically flat revertants of rat 3Y1 cells transformed by the E6 and E7 genes of human papillomavirus type 18 ( HPV18 ) .
Dynein light chain 1 , a p21 - activated kinase 1 - interacting substrate , promotes cancerous phenotypes .
These experimental facts indicated that acquisition of metastatic ability coupled with the function of K - ras oncogene was conditional in nature , being strongly affected by in vivo tumor circumstances .
Further , the inhibition of EGF binding by tumor promoters following long - term treatment of Swiss 3T3 cells with PDBu also varied with growth state .
Converging studies from many investigators indicate that RUNX1 has a critical role in the correct maintenance of essential cellular functions during embryonic development and after birth .
Safety of verteporfin for treatment of subfoveal choroidal neovascular membranes associated with age - related macular degeneration .
Levels of pro - angiogenic vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and angiogenic inhibitor pigment epithelium - derived factor ( PEDF ) were determined .
Enhanced IGF - 1 expression improves smooth muscle cell engraftment after cell transplantation .
Western blot analysis demonstrated a > 2 . 5 - fold increase in Fas protein expression , as well as elevation of the active forms of both caspase - 8 and caspase - 3 .
The p75 receptor belongs to the tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) family of death receptors and has been suggested as a receptor that mediates apoptosis in neuronal and NB cells .
Our results provide the first evidence of the abilities of the LMP1 gene , acting alone , to effectively induce the proliferation of primary MEF cells and of its cooperativity with another cellular oncogene in transforming primary cells .
TGF - beta effects on angiogenesis , stroma formation , and immune function suggest its possible involvement in tumor progression .
The basal phosphorylation of protein kinase C substrate of relative molecular mass ( Mr ) 80 , 000 ( 80K ) is significantly increased in all the ras - transformed cell lines .
An immunohistochemical study .
The mechanisms underlying the initial insulin - induced deterioration of retinal status in patients with diabetes remain unknown .
Pro / antioxidant status and AP - 1 transcription factor in murine skin following topical exposure to cumene hydroperoxide .
In this study we demonstrate that exposure of primary cultures of cardiac and vascular cells to hypoxia or AdCA5 , an adenovirus encoding a constitutively active form of HIF - 1alpha , modulates the expression of genes encoding the angiogenic factors angiopoietin - 1 ( ANGPT1 ) , ANGPT2 , placental growth factor , and platelet - derived growth factor - B .
The finding of differential SSTR expression raises the potential for SSTR expression to be evaluated as a marker of response to somatostatin analogs .
In summary , LPA is likely a key component for promoting ovarian metastasis in vivo .
In aging females , the overexpression of Tsg101 seemed to increase the susceptibility of mammary epithelia toward malignant transformation .
Targeting SREBP could become a novel approach in fighting diseases involving abnormal ECs migration .
Transforming alleles of Notch direct the expression of truncated proteins that primarily consist of N ( ic ) and are not tethered to the plasma membrane .
The result showed that the multilevel of FPC could all apparently induce Bel - 7402 apoptosis .
These data imply that PSMA participates in an autoregulatory loop , wherein active PSMA facilitates integrin signaling and PAK activation , leading to both productive invasion and downregulation of integrin beta ( 1 ) signaling via reduced PSMA activity .
Effect of antitumor agents on cytotoxicity induction by sodium fluoride .
No vessels were visualized in the controls .
Integrin alphavbeta3 requirement for sustained mitogen - activated protein kinase activity during angiogenesis .
CONCLUSION : These results demonstrated that PTEN had played an important role in the cell proliferation , cell migration and invasion dependent on its phosphatase activity .
In summary , the angiogenic property of oral cancer cells is mediated by many factors in addition to VEGF and the functional status of p53 .
The organism prevents malignant transformation by assuring accurate DNA repair before cell division , by forcing the death of cells with excessive DNA damage , and by placing limits on the replicative lifespans of most somatic cells .
Therefore we suggest that HKa through its D5 domain alters P13 - kinase - Akt signaling to inhibit endothelial cell migration through alterations in the focal adhesions .
Patients with tumors demonstrating concurrent methylation of more than half of their genes demonstrated significantly poorer survival and earlier recurrence .
In 1997 , the PTEN gene ( phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 ) was identified as a tumor suppressor gene on the long arm of chromosome 10 .
PURPOSE : The comparative study of differentially expression of protein profiles of hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines with various metastasic potential and screening key molecules related to hepatocellular carcinoma metastasis and recurrence .
Grape seed extract ( GSE ) , a widely used dietary supplement , is known to have antitumor activity .
s - VEGF in peripheral blood samples was analyzed in 40 RCC patients and 40 patients without cancer ( controls ) using a sandwich enzyme - linked immunoassay .
In contrast , there was no association between the expression of AP - 2alpha or AP - 2beta and the level of ErbB - 3 , or between AP - 2alpha and AP - 2gamma double positivity and ErbB - 3 expression .
To better understand the intracellular signaling pathways , we examined the effect of HKa on the phosphorylation of Akt and its downstream effector , GSK - 3alpha HKa and D5 inhibit phosphorylation of Akt and GSK - 3alpha after stimulation withVEGF and S1P .
Irreversible PHT cases were also more likely to show compensatory upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor and new small vessel formation at the sites of native vessel stenosis or occlusion ( p less than 0 . 001 ) .
In this study , we have evaluated the inhibitory effect of UFT against RENCA cell - induced angiogenesis by a dorsal air sac assay .
The Wilms ' tumor 1 ( WT1 ) gene is a tumor suppressor gene that encodes a zinc - finger transcription factor .
This creates a network of Hedgehog signaling that determines the malignant behavior of the tumor cells .
There were significant differences in s - VEGF between the RCC patients and the controls ( 207 . 3 + / - 32 . 9 vs . 71 . 5 + / - 9 . 1 pg / ml , mean + / - SE ) ( P less than 0 . 005 ) , between the tumor - bearing renal veins and the contralateral ones ( P less than 0 . 01 ) , between the pre - and post - nephrectomy situations ( P less than 0 . 01 ) and among the various parameters of tumor status such as tumor extent ( P less than 0 . 001 ) and existence of metastasis ( P less than 0 . 001 ) .
Thus the metastatic phenotype of the hybrids was associated with expression of 72 kDa gelatinase .
There is evidence for the implication of ARF in angiogenesis .
Intracerebral grafting of cultured autologous skin fibroblasts into the rat striatum : an assessment of graft size and ultrastructure .
Tissue integration and implant characteristics of various biomaterials commonly used for inguinal hernia repair have not been studied extensively .
It is possible that the suppressive effect of GA on MMP - 2 / 9 might involve the inhibition of NF - kappaB activity .
It significantly prolongs median survival of patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) but the response is disease - stabilizing and cytostatic rather than one of tumor regression .
p53 protein staining was positive in 29 . 7 % .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is an angiogenic stimulator which functions through two endothelial specific tyrosine kinase receptors , Flt - 1 and Flk - 1 .
Taken together , our data indicate that in VHL disease , therapy directed at inhibition of constitutively expressed VEGF induction of angiogenesis by VHL tumors may constitute an effective medical treatment .
DATS were injected once per four days intraperitoneally ( i . p . ) , with treatment starting 4 weeks prior to cells inoculation .
Effect of transplanted mesenchymal stem cells from rats of different ages on the improvement of heart function after acute myocardial infarction .
The aim of this study was to compare angiogenesis parameters in low nuclear grade ( n = 87 ) vs high nuclear grade CC - RCC ( n = 63 ) .
Despite several advances in therapeutic options , the disease remains incurable .
Transcriptional activity of HIF - 1 ( hypoxia - inducible factor - 1 ) has been reported to be up - regulated in solid tumors after ionizing radiation ; however , the molecular mechanism underlying the response remains to be elucidated .
For a video summary of this article , see the PaperFlick file available with the online Supplemental Data .
Here we demonstrate that ablation of IL - 17F significantly inhibits spontaneous intestinal tumorigenesis in the small intestine of Apc ( Min / + ) mice .
Proliferative diabetic retinopathy is associated with a low level of the natural ocular anti - angiogenic agent pigment epithelium - derived factor ( PEDF ) in aqueous humor .
CONCLUSIONS : Survivin functions as a novel upstream regulator of mitochondrial - dependent apoptosis , and molecular targeting of this pathway results in anticancer activity via a dual mechanism of induction of tumor cell apoptosis and suppression of angiogenesis .
Here we provide evidence that lactate and pyruvate regulate hypoxia - inducible gene expression independently of hypoxia by stimulating the accumulation of hypoxia - inducible Factor 1alpha ( HIF - 1alpha ) .
Downregulation of c - FLIP sensitizes DU145 prostate cancer cells to Fas - mediated apoptosis .
Growth of both histologic types of gene - modified tumor cells in severe combined immunodeficiency ( SCID ) mice was significantly restricted when compared with controls .
CONCLUSIONS : SREBP is activated during and plays a critical role in ECs migration .
VEGF165 expressed by a replication - deficient recombinant adenovirus vector induces angiogenesis in vivo .
Pharmacological inhibition of autophagic flux by chloroquine increased apoptosis and decreased cell viability in hepatoma cells .
This induction was due to activation of autophagic flux , as there was further increase in LC3 - II expression upon treatment with lysosomal inhibitors , clear decline of the autophagy substrate p62 , and an mRFP - GFP - LC3 fluorescence change in sorafenib - treated hepatoma cells .
We found no additive or synergistic effect when the two agents were combined .
The authors found that patients in the high PE group survived for a significantly shorter time than those patients in the low PE group .
These results indicated that Hes genes cooperatively regulate intestinal development and homeostasis and raised the possibility that Hes1 is a promising target to induce the differentiation of tumor cells .
A 24 - h exposure of cells to all - trans - RA was sufficient to cause a 30 % decrease in the collagenolytic activity , and this inhibitory effect was reversible .
Although the Bcl - 2 and Bax levels were significantly higher in spheroids , Bcl - 2 / Bax ratio was similar in monolayers and spheroids .
DNA damage , rearrangement , and mutation of the human genome are the basis of carcinogenesis and thought to be avoided at all costs .
We studied the metabolic changes of endothelial cell activation by growth factors using human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) , [ 1 , 2 - ( 13 ) C ( 2 ) ] - glucose and mass isotopomer distribution analysis .
An increase in oligomycin - independent respiration was observed in HepG2 cells treated with 3 - BrPA only when incubated in glucose - supplemented medium , indicating that 3 - BrPA induces mitochondrial proton leakage as well as blocking the electron transport system .
Vascular abnormalities in the retina were compared between patients with vascularized ( n = 34 , group 1 ) and nonvascularized ( n = 7 , group 2 ) PED on indocyanine green angiography and correlated with the size of the PED and the presence of serous retinal detachment .
These results indicate that Hyp is a powerful anti - inflammatory compound with therapeutic potential , and they elucidate mechanistic keys .
We also report that SPARC arrests monomeric collagen - supported smooth muscle cell proliferation in the late G1 - phase of the cell cycle in the absence of an effect on cell shape or on levels of cyclin - dependent kinase inhibitors .
Here , we have tested endocytic Rab GTPases for regulation of VEGFR2 trafficking and signaling linked to endothelial cell migration .
In order to explore the mechanism of action of angiostatin and its mimetics , further work needs to be done to evaluate clinical applicability , specificity , and contraindications for this class of therapeutics .
Using a combination of two dimensional electrophoresis ( 2 - DE ) and MALDI - TOF mass spectrometry , a total of 125 proteins and their post - translational modification forms or isoforms were found to be differentially expressed in the cell lines .
The introduction of mutations into the T - antigen J domain resulted in mutation - specific and variable inhibition of apoptosis .
These results suggest that , in some immortalized and transformed cells , blocking the cellular signal transduction might trigger the induction of apoptosis .
The later expression of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 in fibroblasts suggests a role in extracellular matrix remodeling .
Our data indicates that this therapeutic approach markedly promotes angiogenesis and granulation tissue formation in comparison with other conditions 14 days after wounding .
Solid tumors express a range of factors required to sustain their growth and promote their dissemination .
A panel of antibodies was used for immunohistochemistry : CD34 / Ki - 67 , carbonic anhydrase IX , hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha ( HIF - 1alpha ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
An intradermal angiogenesis assay was used to demonstrate that a 4 - day treatment with vandetanib ( 50 mg / kg / day ) was able to significantly inhibit blood vessel growth induced by both parental and high VEGF - expressing tumor cell clones .
Hypoxia rapidly induced both JNK1 and p38 activity in these cells .
KISS1 hypermethylation was frequent in bladder cancer cells analyzed by methylation - specific PCR and bisulfite sequencing and was associated with low gene expression , being restored in vitro by demethylating azacytidine .
The growth of the cells was not inhibited under these conditions , except after treatment with 10 microM all - trans - RA in serum - free medium .
CONCLUSION : IMVD may be an important indicator to predict cervical lymphatic metastasis in LSCC .
Together , our results provide not only a novel insight into the mechanisms underlying anti - tumor activity of E1A , but also a rationale for the combined HDACi and E1A gene therapy in future clinical trials .
Counteracting islet endothelial cell inflammation might be one way to ameliorate / prevent beta - cell dysfunction in type 2 diabetes .
METHODS : Expression of MMP - 9 was studied in human NPC cell lines cultured in vitro : CNE1 ( well differentiated cell line of NPC ) and CNE1 - GL ( CNE1 cell line transfected with an eukaryotic LMP1 - expression plasmid ) by SP immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis .
Interestingly , crossing of cyclin D1 transgenic mice with E mu L - myc transgenics that express their transgene in both B - and T - cells but predominantly develop T - cell tumours leads in double transgenics exclusively to B - cell neoplasia .
Depletion of polyphenol with polyvinylpyrrolidone abolished the antiangiogenic activity of GSE , suggesting a water - soluble fraction of polyphenol in GSE is responsible for the antiangiogenic activity .
Intensity and patterns of localization in blood vessels was consistent in various tissues , but varied among different regions of the vascular bed .
Prostaglandin E2 production was measured by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay .
Applying cell immunohistochemistry and RT - PCR , we further validated two interesting and different proteins , annexin1 and S100A4 .
Hepatomas exhibiting this phenotype are dependent on the high expression of type II hexokinase , which supplies such tumors with abundant amounts of glucose 6 - phosphate , a significant carbon and energy source especially under hypoxic conditions .
Nevertheless , patients who achieved complete remission ( CR ) had a significantly lower median PE level compared to those who did not .
In addition , the hypothesis predicts that early detection , which is designed to find more patients without involved lymph nodes , may not be a synergistic strategy with adjuvant chemotherapy , which works best with positive lymph node patients .
Pericytes occur in tumour blood vessels and are critical for the development of a functional vascular network .
It is also clear that diffusible angiogenic stimuli can be released not only from most solid tumors , but also from at least three non - neoplastic cells .
Furthermore , it was shown that thiol - containing antioxidants completely blocked MOG - induced mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss and subsequent cell apoptosis , while the inhibition of apoptosis by benzyloxy - carbonyl - Val - Ala - Asp - fluoromethylketone only partially attenuated mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss , indicating that MOG - induced redox imbalance is an early event upstream to mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss and caspase - 3 activation .
The effect of wild - type or mutant survivin was investigated on capillary network stability , endothelial cell viability , and caspase activation in vitro and on kinetics of tumor growth and development of angiogenesis in a breast cancer xenograft model in vivo .
Interestingly , both INK4 genes express alternative splicing variants .
Together , the data establish that acute ethanol exposure significantly impairs angiogenesis and suggest that this effect is mediated by changes in endothelial cell responsiveness to both VEGF and hypoxia .
Co - treatment with inhibitors of autophagy results in marked enhancement of cell death .
TUNEL assay was used to assess apoptosis .
Untransformed CEF and CEF transformed with Rous sarcoma virus also migrated to 9E3 / CEF4 protein , as measured by Boyden single - membrane analysis .
This review summarises the evidence from 8 pivotal trials of cilostazol involving over 2000 patients with intermittent claudication treated for up to 6 months .
CONCLUSIONS : Neuroblastoma cells grown in coculture conditioned media show increased expression of Bcl - 2 and decreased Fas ligand levels .
Abnormal beta - catenin expression was associated significantly with positive 14 - 3 - 3zeta expression .
TSP - 1 mRNA levels were decreased in all tumours compared with normal prostate .
14 - 3 - 3zeta might be used as prognostic biomarkers for NSCLC .
In this study , the expression of C / EBPbeta was analysed in a series of 90 gastric carcinomas ( GCs ) .
ErbB - 3 ( HER3 ) is a member of the epidermal growth factor receptor family .
Nuclear translocation of a clusterin isoform is associated with induction of anoikis in SV40 - immortalized human prostate epithelial cells .
The finding of retinal vasculopathy ( 32 patients in group 1 and two patients in group 2 ) was directly correlated with the presence of choroidal neovascularizations ( P = 0 . 002 ) .
Western blots confirmed that LeTx treatment reduced the levels of phosphorylated extracellular signal - regulated kinase and p38 MAPK in vitro .
Hypermethylation was also frequently observed in a large series of bladder tumors ( 83 . 1 % , n = 804 ) .
Here we examined expression of type IV collagenases in parental LTA and NIH 3T3 cells ( with and without ras ) and four metastatic LTA x NIH 3T3 hybrids ( also with and without ras ) .
We have , therefore , measured the mRNA level of VEGF - B and VEGF - C together with their receptors by RNase protection assay ( RPA ) in 26 normal kidney samples and 45 renal cell cancers .
This process is necessary for the growth and metastasis of tumors , and considerable effort is being expended to find inhibitors of tumor angiogenesis .
Highly metastatic IV Cl 1 cells expressed approximately 5 fold lower levels of protein encoded by NME genes than non - metastatic IV Cl 3 cells .
Syndecan - 1 is a cell surface proteoglycan that has been implicated in a number of cellular functions including cell - cell adhesion , cell - matrix anchorage and growth factor presentation for signalling receptors .
The activated PI3K ( phosphoinositide 3 - kinase ) / Akt signalling pathway in LNCaP cells contributes to the phosphorylation of PFKFB2 at Ser466 and Ser483 , resulting in the constitutive activation of PFK - 2 ( 6 - phosphofructo - 2 - kinase ) activity .
In this study , the role of the proprotein convertase furin in PLAG1 proto - oncogene - induced salivary gland tumorigenesis was investigated .
CONCLUSIONS : Higher expression of the glucose transporter Glut - 1 by breast cancer cells compared with the healthy breast tissue is common .
In addition , the FAS - 670AG or GG genotype showed an increased incidence of node metastasis , but these findings were not statistically significant ( OR = 3 . 67 , 95 % CI = 0 . 96 - 14 . 00 , P = 0 . 059 ) .
An assay to measure angiogenesis in human fat tissue .
RESULTS : SPARC expression was mainly in the stromal cells surrounding the colon cancer , and was significant difference in those tissues with the lymph node metastasis and differentiation degree of tumor .
Recently , significant improvements in survival have been achieved through the use of combination chemotherapy and monoclonal antibody regimens .
All of the 4 tumors that were CD40 - negative , were stage I tumors , without any evidence of regional or distant metastasis .
A feasibility study was carried out to develop the Ahn / Mustoe lapine wound model for systematic investigation of the effects of electrical stimulation on ischemic wound therapy .
The translocation of GR was induced by FA alone , DMI alone , and combination of both agents .
In human endothelial cells , cediranib inhibited VEGF - E - induced phosphorylation of VEGFR - 2 and VEGF - C156S - induced phosphorylation of VEGFR - 3 at concentrations of less than / = 1nmol / L and inhibited activation of downstream signaling molecules .
Differential expression and mutation of NME genes in autologous cultured human melanoma cells with different metastatic potentials .
Very little is yet known about the precise relationship of p53 to malignant transformation .
While accumlating evidence for the function of MTSS1 support the concept that it is unlikely to be a metastasis suppressor , but actually acts as a scaffold protein that interacts with multiple partners to regulate actin dynamics .
As shown previously , ectopic expression of Runx2 in the thymus leads to a preneoplastic state defined by an accumulation of cells with an immature phenotype and a low proliferative rate .
Hyperforin blocks neutrophil activation of matrix metalloproteinase - 9 , motility and recruitment , and restrains inflammation - triggered angiogenesis and lung fibrosis .
This study aims to verify the relationship between p63 expression and several clinicopathological features and tumor markers of clinical significance in breast pathology including key regulators of the cell cycle , oncogenes , apoptosis - related proteins , metalloproteinases and their inhibitors .
Lymph nodes metastasis of tumor could be a crucial early step in the metastatic process .
At later stages , branches of radial arteries penetrated the periphery forming an extensive mesh of capillaries on the concave surface .
RNA interference targeting Met in these tumor cells resulted in a significant delay in tumor growth in vivo compared with the control cells .
Importantly , a striking increase in the expression of specific PTPases , LAR and PTP1B , was observed in 3 independently neu transformed cell lines and their derived tumors .
METHODS : One hundred and one specimens obtained from surgery were studied by immunohistochemistry using monoclonal anti - E - cadherin , anti - alpha - catenin and anti - p53 antibodies .
In addition , all of the endometrial cancer cell lines lost normal DCC expression .
This study identifies genes expressed early in 12 - O - tetradecanoylphorbol - 13 - acetate ( TPA ) - induced skin carcinogenesis in genetically initiated Tg . AC v - Ha - ras transgenic mice .
The activity of succinate dehydrogenase was inhibited by 70 % by 3 - BrPA treatment .
Moreover , we demonstrate that this inflammation - driven netrin - 1 up - regulation is causal for colorectal cancer development as interference with netrin - 1 autocrine loop in a mouse model for ulcerative colitis - associated colorectal cancer , while showing no effect on inflammation , inhibits colorectal cancer progression .
The mechanism of caffeine seems to involve the inhibition of the extracellular signal - regulated kinase 1 / 2 ( ERK1 / 2 ) , p38 , and Akt , leading to a marked decrease in adenosine - induced HIF - 1alpha accumulation , VEGF transcriptional activation , and VEGF and IL - 8 protein accumulation .
BAG - 1 is expressed ubiquitously in human cells as three major isoforms of 50 kDa ( BAG - 1L ) , 46 kDa ( BAG - 1M ) and 36 kDa ( BAG - 1S ) from a single mRNA .
RESULTS : The final visual acuity of the study patients , after a median follow - up of 31 months , improved by greater than or = 1 Snellen lines in 8 patients ( 13 % ) , deteriorated in 20 ( 32 % ) , and remained stable in 34 ( 55 % ) .
An understanding of the molecular basis of TSP - 1 - mediated inhibition of angiogenesis and tumor progression will aid in the development of novel therapeutics for the treatment of cancer .
Here , we evaluated the usefulness of measuring serum and urine IL - 8 levels in patients with NHL .
Compared with the control cells , a desensitization of the response was observed in cells transformed by the overexpression of N - , Ha - , or Ki - ras genes .
Tail vein injection of N - ( 1 - ( 2 , 3 - dioleoyloxy ) propyl ) - N , N , N - trimethylammonium chloride ( DOTAP ) / cholesterol lipoplexes resulted in increased lipoplex entrapment in hypervascularized liver but did not boost luciferase expression , suggesting that lipoplex delivery is not a sufficient condition for efficient organ lipofection .
Cancer stem cells ( CSC ) are predicted to be critical drivers of tumor progression due to their self - renewal capacity and limitless proliferative potential .
This was confirmed with chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments of the human c - Met promoter , as well as by the ability of adenovirally expressed Mitf to modulate endogenous c - Met protein levels in melanocytes .
After decapitation of the rats , trunk blood was obtained , and the ileum , liver , and kidney were removed for histological examination and for the measurement of malondialdehyde ( MDA ) and glutathione ( GSH ) levels , myeloperoxidase ( MPO ) activity , and collagen content .
Concentrations achieved in vivo in tumors lead to single - agent anti - tumor activity at non - toxic doses .
In this study , we investigated the effects of caffeine on HIF - 1 protein accumulation and on VEGF and IL - 8 expression in the human colon cancer cell line HT29 under hypoxic conditions .
The results demonstrated that levels of the c - jun mRNA and protein were unchanged in the revertants when compared to the transformed parental cells , and ectopic overexpression of c - jun failed to retransform the revertants .
These results highlight the importance of selenoperoxidase action in the glutathione cycle as a means by which tumor cells cope with hydroperoxide stress .
We identify here hADA3 , human homologue of the yeast transcriptional coactivator yADA3 , as a novel E6 - interacting protein and a target of E6 - induced degradation .
To understand the mechanisms behind these processes , we have examined the effect of FVIIa on apoptosis .
Remarkably , final sigma mRNA was undetectable in 45 of 48 primary breast carcinomas .
A synthetic tetracycline , doxycycline , inhibits migration of human MDA - MB - 435 breast adenocarcinoma cells through a reconstituted basement membrane ( Matrigel ) , an assay used as an in vitro surrogate for the in vivo process of tumor invasion through basement membranes .
These findings have suggested that diabetes mellitus may have a different action on retinal and coronary circulation .
However , the biochemical mechanisms by which MTSS1 functions in cells and the physiological role of this protein in animals remain largely unknown .
The aims of the present study were to compare , in vitro and in vivo , the antiangiogenic and antitumor activities of metronomic irinotecan ( CPT - 11 ) , oxaliplatin ( L - OHP ) and 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) in colorectal cancer and to investigate the metronomic combination of these drugs .
VEGF is upregulated after hypoxic injury to the brain , which can occur during cerebral ischemia or high - altitude edema , and has been implicated in the blood - brain barrier breakdown associated with these conditions .
Low density lipoprotein receptor - related protein - 1 ( LRP - 1 ) is a catabolic receptor for extracellular matrix ( ECM ) structural proteins and for proteins that bind to ECM .
Role of osteopontin in adhesion , migration , cell survival and bone remodeling .
This was markedly suppressed upon simultaneous injection of anti - VEGF polyclonal antibodies with the supernatant .
METHODS : An mIL - 12 expression vector driven by cytomegalovirus promoter was used to express murine IL - 12 cDNA in the RM - 9 murine prostate carcinoma cell line .
This enhanced glycolysis was partly sensitive to rutamycin and partly sensitive to ouabain , suggesting that the detergent released the control of the ATPase of the mitochondria and of the plasma membrane Na + K + - ATPase .
DNA methylation and expression of HLA - DR alpha .
In the present study , we applied the alginate implant angiogenesis model in mice with normal ANG II levels , elevated ANG II levels by transgenic overexpression of angiotensinogen ( AOGEN ) , or in AT2 receptor - deficient mice .
PURPOSE : The purpose of this study was to evaluate the applications of magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) , and in particular , dynamic contrast - enhanced MRI ( DCE - MRI ) , in the assessment of tumour microvasculature by means of animal tumour models evaluated before and after antiangiogenic treatment .
These discoveries have dramatically changed the work - up and genetic counseling of patients and families with paragangliomas and / or pheochromocytomas .
This perspective places the report by Villani et al . that appears in this issue of the journal ( beginning on page 1222 ) in the context of recent work showing an intersection between two important developmental pathways implicated in oncogenesis : the hedgehog and insulin - like growth factor ( IGF ) pathways .
In spleen , tyrosinase , TRP - 1 and SV40 Tag were expressed and tyrosinase was enzymatically active .
Absent staining of beta - catenin was associated with lymph node metastasis .
Taken together , this study indicates that GSE is a well - tolerated and inexpensive natural VEGF inhibitor and could potentially be useful in cancer prevention or treatment .
Since AP - 1 and NF - kappa B are key elements in controlling interleukin - 8 ( IL - 8 ) transcription , human fibroblasts were treated with alpha - MSH and IL - 1 beta for 24 hours , and cytokine levels in the supernatants were measured by ELISA .
The genes regulated by Nrf2 are very important for cellular protection of the genome from xenobiotic and oxidative stresses and , consequently , for preventing carcinogenesis .
The median number of therapies applied , including initial surgery , was 5 ( range 3 - 7 therapies ) .
RESULTS : 89 . 5 % ( n = 238 ) of NSCLC revealed LDH5 expression whereas LDH5 expression was not detected in non neoplastic lung tissues ( n = 34 ) ( p < 0 . 0001 ) .
Other anti - angiogenic therapies alter the immune response and endogeneous angiogenesis inhibitor levels .
Cell - matrix adhesion assay was used to study the adhesive ability of CNE1 - GL cells .
Using a human recombinant antibody ( scFv ) specific for the angiogenesis marker domain B of fibronectin , interleukin 2 , and an scFv able to neutralize tumor necrosis factor - alpha , we expressed various biologically active uteroglobin fusion proteins .
In particular , the activity of angiogenic factors is crucial for tumor progression .
We demonstrate that a decrease in the amount of circulating ANG II by the angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitor enalapril or the AT1 receptor antagonist losartan induced a stimulation of in vivo angiogenesis implying an inhibitory function of ANG II through the AT1 receptor .
Increases in these mRNA levels were similar in tumors of both low and high metastatic potential .
But little is known about the characteristics of young donor - derived MSCs transplanted to old patients with AMI .
The inhibition of cultured myoblast differentiation by the simian virus 40 large T antigen occurs after myogenin expression and Rb up - regulation and is not exerted by transformation - competent cytoplasmic mutants .
Tumors are tissue - specific diseases , and their mechanisms of invasion and metastasis are highly diverse .
BACKGROUND : The anabolic properties of insulin have been suggested for use to reverse malnutrition associated with cancer .
Depletion of Rab7a decreased VEGFR2 Y1175 phosphorylation but increased p42 / 44 ( pERK1 / 2 ) MAPK phosphorylation .
The transformation is a consequence of the ability of viruses to integrate into the host cell ' s DNA and to produce transforming proteins .
This indicates that the strategy may be a useful therapeutic avenue for treatment of patients with malignant glioma .
The role of retinal microglial cells ( MCs ) in age - related macular degeneration ( AMD ) is unclear .
Concordance in topo I staining between primary and lymph node metastases was observed in 33 of 42 cases ( P = . 029 ) .
I .
The expression of SREBP and Cdc42 were determined by Western blot and quantitative real - time PCR .
The Ha - ras oncogene alone did not convert normal human fibroblasts into either immortal or tumorigenic cells .
The safety and efficacy of rofecoxib treatment were determined based on subjective patient reports and physical examinations during follow - up clinic visits .
We situate invasion within microecosystems comprising neoplastic cells as well as host cells .
Overexpression of AP - 2A resulted in a decreased proliferation rate and inhibitin of colony formation .
The pathophysiology involves inflammation and angiogenesis .
14 diabetics with chronic nonhealing wounds which did not respond to treatment for at least 3 months were treated by HBO .
The safety of verteporfin is directly dependent upon the appropriate integration of dosage , infusion and light activation required for a suitable pharmacotherapeutic outcome .
The expression of ARD1 was augmented by treatment with synthetic androgen ( R1881 ) unless AR is deficient or is inhibited by AR - specific siRNA or androgen inhibitor bicalutamide ( Casodex ) .
PURPOSE : The matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) are a family of proteolytic enzymes involved in tumor invasion ; several individual members of which have been implicated in tumor prognosis .
Vitamins regulate gene expression and induce differentiation and growth inhibition in cancer cells .
The rapid down - regulation of Tie1 by shear stress changes and its rapid binding to Tie2 may be required for destabilization of endothelial cells in order to initiate the process of vascular restructuring .
To study Hedgehog signaling in vivo a hind limb tumor model with the B16F0 cell line was used .
The absence of functional von Hippel - Lindau ( VHL ) tumor suppressor gene leads to the development of neoplasias characteristic of VHL disease , including renal cell carcinoma ( RCC ) .
In a mouse model of endotoxemia , DSCR - 1s - deficient mice demonstrated increased sepsis mortality , whereas adenovirus - mediated DSCR - 1s overexpression protected against LPS - induced lethality .
One of these mutants ( CU2 ) increases the rate of glucose transport only slightly and does not render the infected cells fully anchorage independent or tumorigenic ( although other transformation parameters are fully induced ) .
In this review , we discuss the reported involvement of syndecans in human cancers , infectious diseases , obesity , wound healing and angiogenesis .
IL - 8 may present a novel therapeutic target for estrogen driven breast carcinogenesis and tumor progression .
Twenty mature male New Zealand white rabbits ( 3 kg weight ) were employed to evaluate the effects of two empirically selected stimulation paradigms applied continuously for 7 - 21 days , using each animal as its own control .
Cells were perifused in the presence of 5 mM glucose , 0 . 5 mM glutamine or 5 mM glucose and 0 . 5 mM glutamine .
Glucose catabolism in cancer cells : identification and characterization of a marked activation response of the type II hexokinase gene to hypoxic conditions .
CONCLUSIONS : The data suggest that PI3K / Akt - NF - kappaB axis may promote PC bone metastasis in part by regulating transcription and activation of the BMP - 2 - Smad signaling cascade in osteotropic PC cells .
Traditional coronary revascularization therapies such as coronary angioplasty or bypass graft surgery , act by restoring blood flow through the preexisting coronary vessels .
BPDE treatment caused induction of both AP - 1 and NF - kappaB activity as determined by luciferase reporter assay and only NF - kappaB induction in response to BPDE was significantly attenuated by TSC phenolic fraction whereas AP - 1 induction remains unaltered .
Additionally , the angiogenic and lymphangiogenic profiles of the tumors were characterized .
The mechanism of this potent collaboration is elucidated in this study of Runx2 / MYC mice .
Differential regulation of in vivo angiogenesis by angiotensin II receptors .
The review is focused on the participation of polymorphonuclear granulocytes ( neutrophils ) in development and spreading of a tumor .
The cell death pathway initiated by survivin targeting was mapped with respect to cytochrome c release , changes in mitochondrial transmembrane potential , and apoptosome requirements using mouse embryonic fibroblasts deficient in Apaf - 1 or caspase - 9 .
We are increasingly aware that cellular metabolism plays a vital role in diseases such as cancer , and that p53 is an important regulator of metabolic pathways .
[ Inhibitory effect of adenovirus - mediated endostatin gene transfer on transplanted lung carcinoma in mice ]
2G7 transiently inhibited growth of established MDA - 231 subcutaneous tumors .
Diallyl trisulfide ( DATS ) inhibits mouse colon tumor in mouse CT - 26 cells allograft model in vivo .
An analysis of the Pbx1 promoter region revealed that Evi - 1 upregulates Pbx1 transcription .
BACKGROUND : Roundabouts are axon guidance molecules that have recently been identified to play a role in vascular guidance as well .
Hypoxic tumor cells distant from blood vessels were dramatically reoxygenated at 24 h postirradiation , and HIF - 1 activity increased as HIF - 1alpha accumulated in the reoxygenated regions .
Recent data suggest that activation of the integrin - associated protein CD47 promotes neuronal cell death .
Groups 3 and 4 were vitamin E and untreated controls .
We tested whether as well as inhibiting leukocyte elastase ( LE ) activity , Hyp might be effective in containing both polymorphonuclear neutrophil ( PMN ) leukocyte recruitment and unfavorable eventual tissue responses .
No alteration was detected in either of these regions in any phase of the disease .
After 7 months median visual acuity ( VA ) was 20 / 160 for the irradiated and 20 / 400 for the untreated patients .
( 2 ) .
The tumor vascular network is the result of pro - angiogenic and inhibitory factors as well as of the interaction between endothelial cells and extracellular matrix .
IMPLICATIONS : These findings also contrast with the demonstration of nm23 metastasis suppressor activity in murine melanoma and with the correlation of loss of nm23 expression in breast cancer with poor prognosis .
In contrast , knockdown of Pbx1 did not impair bone marrow transformation by E2A / HLF or AML1 / ETO , suggesting that Pbx1 is specifically required for the maintenance of bone marrow transformation mediated by Evi - 1 .
Plasmid DNA encoding each of the three principal human VEGF isoforms ( phVEGF121 , phVEGF165 , or phVEGF189 ) was applied to the hydrogel polymer coating of an angioplasty balloon and delivered percutaneously to one iliac artery of rabbits with operatively induced hindlimb ischemia .
From a functional perspective , we observe that caffeine also significantly inhibits the A3 receptor - stimulated cell migration of colon cancer cells .
Nontumorigenic , immortalized keratinocytes cell line ( 3PC ) , papilloma ( MT1 / 2 ) , and squamous cell carcinoma ( Ca3 / 7 ) cell lines were initially used to study the cell growth inhibition by DMI .
OBJECTIVE : In the present study , we attempted to identify EGFR and TGF - alpha expression and Ki - 67 index in carcinoma ex - pleomorphic adenoma ( Ca ex - PA ) and PA .
BACKGROUND : Recently , the desmoplastic reaction has been implicated as having an important function in epithelial solid tumor biology .
We show mutation of S727 to the phosphomimetic residue Glu , and inactivation of Y705 ( Y705F / S727E ) resulted in a remarkable growth advantage in low - serum , enhanced anchorage - independent growth in soft agar , and increased tumorigenicity in nonobese diabetic / severe combined immunodeficient ( NOD / SCID ) mice , possibly by direct activation of downstream proto - oncogenes c - myc , mcl - 1 , and survivin .
The authors detected both nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 mRNA levels in 47 tissues samples of patients with carcinoma of buccal mucosa ( CBM ) by quantitative reverse transcription PCR amplification .
CONCLUSION : In conclusion , we strongly suggest that docetaxel and ATRA combination is a good candidate for this challenging era of daily oncologic practice .
Age - related impaired wound healing leads to substantial morbidity and mortality along with a large financial burden to health services .
It is interesting that certain components of neutrophil cytotoxic arsenal ( ROS , cytokines , specific enzymes ) participate both in antitumoral defenses of an organism and protumoral activity .
Molecular events leading to enhanced glucose transport in Rous sarcoma virus - transformed cells .
We also show that VEGFR1 + cells express VLA - 4 ( also known as integrin alpha4beta1 ) , and that tumour - specific growth factors upregulate fibronectin - - a VLA - 4 ligand - - in resident fibroblasts , providing a permissive niche for incoming tumour cells .
Mechanisms for the magnolol - induced cell death of CGTH W - 2 thyroid carcinoma cells .
BACKGROUND : Abnormal hemostasis in cancer patients has previously been described , however the correlation between the plasma fibrinogen level and cancer metastasis and prognosis has not been reported in a large - scale clinical study .
In animal or cell culture studies , the growth and spread of cancer can be slowed by many nutrients , food factors , herbal extracts , and well - tolerated , available drugs that are still rarely used in the clinical management of cancer , in part because they seem unlikely to constitute definitive therapies in themselves .
Associations with cancer risk were estimated using two - sided logistic regression .
Neuroblastoma and hepatocyte coculture conditioned media alter apoptosis .
METHODS : Thirty - two male wistar rats randomly divided into four groups .
Although there was no significant difference of the H . pylori positivity between the two groups , the rate for both groups was higher than reported in previous studies .
A previous study showed that the expression of COUP - TFII enhanced invasiveness of human lung carcinoma cells .
Elevated vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) secretion by malignant cells enhanced recruitment of endothelial cells ( EC ) in heterotypic cocultures .
Left ventricular capillary length density ( mm / mm ( 3 ) ) increased gradually with alinidine administration ; a 15 % increase after 2 weeks and a 40 % increase after 3 weeks of alinidine treatment were documented .
Neovascularization is associated with mechanical strain - dependent induction of angiogenic factors such as CCN1 , an immediate - early gene - encoded matricellular molecule critical for vascular development and repair .
In addition , the model supports local tissue hypoxia in the liver and spleen , coupled with increased erythropoeitin signaling and erythropoiesis in the spleen and BM , and suppression of mechanisms that contribute to genomic stability , events that could be contributing factors to hemangiosarcoma formation .
They also serve as important intracellular signaling molecules that amplify the synovial inflammatory - proliferative response .
Low transcript expression alone ( P = 0 . 003 ) or combined with methylation ( P = 0 . 019 ) was associated with poor disease - specific survival ( n = 205 ) .
Glycolysis of 3T3 and Ehrlich ascites tumor cells was greatly enhanced by Nonidet P - 40 or Triton X - 100 at about 100 micrograms / mg cell protein .
The capillary density in group 1 ( ischemia + L - NIL ) was significantly different from group 2 ( ischemia + saline ) ; group 1 : 360 . 33 + / - 77 . 02 , group 2 : 549 + / - 81 . 85 / mm2 , p < 0 . 05 ) . In addition , expression of HIF1alpha was significantly increased in ischemic groups ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
The expression of JUN , ERBB2 , MYC , cyclin D , PCNA , bFGF , VEGF and Hsp70 proteins revealed a positive correlation to lymph node involvement .
The semaphorin 7A receptor Plexin C1 is lost during melanoma metastasis .
Furthermore , this may explain why cancer in younger patients is more often ' aggressive ' .
Coagulation function in patients with pancreatic carcinoma .
Anarchic angiogenesis with large , moniliform , tortuous vessels was seen in severe dysplasias and carcinomas .
It suggests that osteopontin plays an important role in human glioma progression .
Direct involvement of BRCA1 in the development of breast and ovarian cancer is suggested by the finding that the BRCA1 promoter region CpG island is methylated in a proportion of breast and ovarian cancers .
A reduction and not an increase in tumor glucose availability could be a more appropriate strategy for the induction of energy failure in tumors .
The tumor apoptosis was observed by electron microscopy .
These results demonstrate that functional collaboration exists between p18 and Men1 and suggest that Men1 may regulate additional factor ( s ) that interact with p18 and p27 differently .
To assess the lymphoid tumorigenic potential of bcl - 2 , mice of five independent strains expressing a bcl - 2 transgene in B and / or T cells were monitored for disease up to 12 months of age .
RESULTS : Robo1 and Robo4 knockdown cells display distinct activity in endothelial cell migration assay .
Endothelial cell proliferation and migration is essential to angiogenesis .
Here , we investigated whether angiogenesis and tumor metastasis are dependent on hypoxia conditioning - induced TB4 expression in B16F10 melanoma cells .
These results suggest that overexpression of PLD isozymes may play an important role in neoplastic transformation .
Overexpression of CYR61 , CTGF , WISP - 1 , and NOV occurred in 48 % ( 32 of 66 ) , 58 % ( 38 of 66 ) , 36 % ( 24 of 66 ) , and 15 % ( 10 of 66 ) of primary gliomas , respectively .
METHODOLOGY / PRINCIPAL FINDINGS : Here , we propose a novel HDAC inhibitor , N - Hydroxy - 4 - ( 4 - phenylbutyryl - amino ) benzamide ( HTPB ) , as a potential chemotherapeutic drug for solid tumors .
High density of somatostatin receptors in veins surrounding human cancer tissue : role in tumor - host interaction ?
The main objective of the study was to determine the mean visual acuity change .
AVE8062 : a new combretastatin derivative vascular disrupting agent .
To evaluate the biological significance of M - CSF induced VEGF production , we used an in vivo angiogenesis model to illustrate the ability of M - CSF to recruit mononuclear phagocytes , increase VEGF levels , and enhance angiogenesis .
Although several methods have been used for measuring in vitro angiogenesis , a proper technique has not been developed for identifying in vivo NO - dependent angiogenesis .
Our data show that inactivating mutations in CK1delta impair SV40 - induced cellular transformation in vitro and mouse mammary carcinogenesis in vivo .
CONCLUSIONS : Thus , expression of the TrkA receptor itself inhibits p75 mediated apoptosis in NB cells .
Bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy is first - line therapy for stage IV disease .
Regulation of thrombospondin - 1 by natural and synthetic progestins in human breast cancer cells .
This mutant enhanced the steady - level and transcriptional activity of ER .
Here we review and comment on these findings and on their implications for cancer biology .
Insulin - like growth factor - I receptor - mediated vasculogenesis / angiogenesis in human lung development .
Expression of ING4 is significantly reduced in gliomas as compared with normal human brain tissue , and the extent of reduction correlates with the progression from lower to higher grades of tumours .
In contrast , tunicamycin had little effect on the viability and MTT responses of the cells used .
The results are consistent with the hypothesis that the activity of COX - II is associated with the formation of functional CL via its stimulation of angiogenesis .
These results suggest that non - thrombogenic agonists or antagonists of the activated thrombin receptor can be used as modulators of angiogenesis .
We postulate that endoscopic observation is valuable in investigating the development of gastric carcinoma , and microvascular structure and lectin binding pattern may be useful to demonstrate the mechanism of growth of gastric carcinoma .
However , recent works demonstrate that Brn - 3a expression is not restricted to neuronal cells , as its activity was detected also in cancer cells of non - neuronal nature .
The positive rates of PTEN mRNA expression were 80 . 4 % ( 45 / 56 ) , 45 . 5 % ( 5 / 11 ) and 32 . 1 % ( 18 / 56 ) in normal mucosa , early and advanced gastric carcinomas , respectively , while 78 . 6 % ( 44 / 56 ) , 44 . 5 % ( 5 / 11 ) and 28 . 6 % ( 16 / 56 ) at the protein level .
Vital imaging using high - resolution ultrasound enhanced with contrast microbubbles revealed that the effects of LeTx on tumor perfusion were remarkably rapid ( less than 24 h ) and resulted in a marked reduction of perfusion within the tumor but not in nontumor tissues .
Since hexokinase is the first rate limiting enzyme in the glycolytic pathway , elevated levels of Type II like hexokinase in tumors are of great significance in this context .
We hypothesized that Erbb2 activation contributes to UV - induced skin tumorigenesis by suppressing cell cycle arrest .
The role of each prognostic variable and their independent effect were studied using the Cox model .
LVI was correctly identified by D2 - 40 ( D2 - 40 + ) in 70 out of 254 tumors ( 28 % ) as compared to 40 tumors ( 16 % ) by routine HE staining ( HE + ) .
Although extracellular signal - regulated protein kinase 1 / 2 ( ERK1 / 2 ) , c - Jun N - terminal kinase 1 ( JNK1 ) , and p38 were activated after denudation , the activation of ERK1 and p38 was more rapid and prominent .
In cervical cancer cells , paclitaxel induced apoptosis through an intrinsic pathway with prior G2 / M arrest .
Despite considerable efforts in understanding the cellular mechanisms contributing to pancreatic cancer , the prognosis of this malignant disease is still extremely poor .
Taken together , these results lend great support to use PDGFRbeta antagonists in combinations with other antitumor and / or anti - angiogenic agents in the treatment of a variety of cancers .
The average latency of leukemia induction was shorter for the erbA / myb IRES virus ( 3 . 5 weeks ) than for the erbA IRES virus ( 5 weeks ) .
To determine whether lipofection in other organs could be enhanced by increasing the degree of vascularization , we used a transgenic mouse model with tissue - specific angiogenesis in liver .
The latter effect persisted even with the late addition of CHX .
We have reported recently that the long terminal repeat ( LTR ) of Moloney murine leukemia virus encodes a trans activator which induces transcription and expression of class I major histocompatibility complex genes and certain cytokine genes .
Based on ChIP analysis , the transcriptional regulation of BMP - 2 gene by NF - kappaB may be partially attributed to binding to kappab site on the BMP - 2 promoter .
Angiostatin was first discovered as a plasminogen fragment with antitumor / antiangiogenic property .
Inhibition of ethanol metabolism by 4 - methylpyrazole partially abrogated the effect of ethanol on endothelial cell cord formation .
A number of epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) deletion mutants have been identified in gliomas , in which the EGFR gene is frequently amplified and rearranged .
In cultured stable Grm1 - mouse - melanocytic clones , as well as an metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 ( Grm1 ) expressing human melanoma cell line , C8161 , stimulation of Grm1 by its agonist led to the activation of AKT , while preincubation with Grm1 - antagonist abolished Grm1 - agonist - induced AKT activation .
We found a ser122 - pro mutation in the NME2 gene of metastatic IV Cl 1 cells .
The most common toxicity was skin rash ( 40 % ) ; myelosuppression and gastrointestinal side effects were uncommon .
These accelerated relapses occur within 10 months of surgery for untreated patients .
Rearrangement of the c - myc gene was common in the plasmacytomas , implying a synergistic role for myc and bcl - 2 in their etiology , but was not detected in the lymphomas .
TTF - 1 staining was present in 31 of the 40 ( 78 % ) metastatic lung carcinomas , but in only 1 of the 31 ( 3 % ) metastatic nonpulmonary carcinomas ( a small - cell carcinoma of the sinonasal tract ) .
C / EBPbeta and Ki67 , a marker of cell proliferation , were also co - expressed in primary GC .
The in vitro expression of FAK and its level of phosphorylation appear to be related to several physiological phenomena , including cell spreading , cell differentiation , cell locomotion and cell death .
Single - nucleotide polymorphisms of the FAS - 1377G / A , FAS - 670A / G , and FASL - 844T / C genes may alter transcriptional activity of these genes .
Ex vivo cultures from invasive tumors or metastases produced cells that were homogeneously E - cadherin - positive and noninvasive in vitro .
PURPOSE : This study was designed to reconcile our previous findings with the recent report of nm23 - H1 allelic deletion in human colon cancers associated with poor prognosis .
Patients were followed up at 1 month and 3 months after treatment and thereafter at 3 - month intervals .
Moreover , renal carcinoma cell lines also released the soluble form of CD154 into the supernatant .
In addition , the microtubule - destabilizing agents cause prominent changes in endothelial cell morphology , an action associated with rapid vascular collapse in vivo .
Recent evidence has suggested a role for inflammation in seizure disorders .
METHODS : From June 2004 to December 2007 , 132 patients received diagnosis and treatment in our hospital .
DNA fragmentation occurred in response to anti - Fas treatment .
Temporal changes in physiological spaces , protein expression of transporters and enzymes , and enalapril removal were appraised in the metastatic liver tumor model developed from male Wag / Rij rats after the intraportal injection of CC531 colon adenocarcinoma cells ; sham - operated preparations received PBS .
However , the pathophysiologic role of CD154 expressed by tumor cells remains unclear .
To analyze the role of ADAM - 9 for the interaction between melanoma cells and stromal fibroblasts , we produced the recombinant disintegrin - like and cysteine - rich domain of ADAM - 9 ( DC - 9 ) .
Further analysis reveals that although LMP1 ( TRADD ) promotes cell growth , it does not prevent the eventual onset of senescence and the expression of tumor suppressor p16 ( Ink4a ) .
CONCLUSION : MCT targeting significantly reduced the viability of U - 87 MG cells mediated by both apoptosis and necrosis .
During normal skin function , p53 in the keratinocyte is a transducer of the skin tanning signal and an essential component of what is effectively a keratinocyte - melanocyte signaling cycle that regulates skin pigmentation .
However , the role of IL - 17F in intestinal tumorigenesis has not been addressed .
Expression of DCC and netrin - 1 in normal human endometrium and its implication in endometrial carcinogenesis .
Thus , the NO metabolic pathway in endothelial cells could be one of the main contributing factors for angiogenesis .
Malignant cells often display defects in autophagy , an evolutionarily conserved pathway for degrading long - lived proteins and cytoplasmic organelles .
RESULTS : 2ME2 exhibited antiproliferative and cytotoxic effects in a panel of five head and neck squamous cell carcinoma cell lines in the 0 . 5 to 10 micromol / L range , including induction of G2 - M blockade , caspase - 3 / 7 activation , and apoptosis at 48 hours .
To determine the mechanisms whereby hematopoietic growth factors ( HGFs ) modulate apoptosis in human myeloid leukemic cells , we evaluated the roles of protein and mRNA synthesis for altering apoptosis in growth factor - stimulated vs . quiescent leukemic TF1 cells .
Six edentulous patients ( aged 60 + / - 9 years ) with a severely atrophic mandible underwent bone augmentation with distraction osteogenesis .
Oocytes in double - mutant females showed normal localization of brca2 and pou5f1 transcripts to the animal pole and vasa transcripts to the vegetal pole , but had a polarized rather than symmetrical nucleus with the distribution of nucleoli and chromosomes to opposite nuclear poles ; this result revealed a novel role for Brca2 in establishing or maintaining oocyte nuclear architecture .
Relationship between of blood flow , glucose metabolism , protein synthesis , glucose and ATP content in experimentally - induced glioma ( RG1 2 . 2 ) of rat brain .
These findings demonstrate that beclin 1 is a haplo - insufficient tumor - suppressor gene and provide genetic evidence that autophagy is a novel mechanism of cell - growth control and tumor suppression .
Inducible nitric oxide synthase modulates angiogenesis in ischemic hindlimb of rat .
While TSP - 2 deficiency did not affect tumor differentiation or proliferation , tumor cell apoptosis was significantly reduced .
Chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter - transcription factor II ( COUP - TFII ) plays an essential role in angiogenesis and development .
CONCLUSION : These results suggest that mutant p53 expression is associated with angiogenesis and distant metastasis in esophageal SCC , and that the coexpression of p53 and VEGF may play an important role in angiogenesis , and have important clinical significance .
Until recently , their role in pathogenesis was largely unexplored .
The central region that is sufficient for these activities includes the evolutionarily highly conserved region among human , mouse and chicken c - fos proteins .
Point mutations of H - ras however , were identified in three distant metastatic pituitary tumor secondaries , but not in their respective primary pituitary carcinomas , or in six invasive adenomas .
These observations have led to the idea that factors in the host downmodulate the E - cadherin complex and promote invasion most probably in a transient way .
Intensive insulin therapy may cause a transient worsening of retinopathy in patients with diabetes through increased retinal VEGF gene expression .
E - cadherin is a Ca ( 2 + ) - dependent cell - cell adhesion molecule , which is mainly expressed in epithelial cells .
The cells subsequently proliferate and differentiate to form endothelial tubes and capillary - like structures .
Targeting angiogenesis : progress with anti - VEGF treatment with large molecules .
Here we show that IL - 12 activates an anti - angiogenic program in Con A - activated mouse spleen cells ( activated spc ) or human PBMC ( activated PBMC ) .
RESULTS : Both inhibition of proliferation ( p < 0 . 05 ) and induction of apoptosis ( p < 0 . 05 ) were observed in SKOV3 cells transfected with hPNAS - 4 - p in vitro .
Thus , these data demonstrate cooperative mechanisms for VPF / VEGF regulation of EC migration involving the alphavbeta3 integrin , the alphavbeta3 ligand OPN , and thrombin cleavage of OPN .
Overexpression of NRP1 by prostate tumor cells in vivo results in increased tumor angiogenesis and growth .
The present study was designed to investigate the effect of transplanted MSCs from rats of different ages on the improvement of heart function after AMI .
Previously we demonstrated that N1 ( ic ) and N2 ( ic ) could transform E1A immortalized baby rat kidney cells ( RKE ) in vitro .
We tested this possibility with in vitro assays using human endothelial cells , as well as in a rodent hindlimb ischemia model .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : In the present study , we investigated the effects of 2ME2 alone and in combination with paclitaxel , an active agent in recurrent or advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
The Hedgehog pathway antagonist cyclopamine effectively reduced Shh - induced proliferation to control levels .
In addition , p21 - or p16 - mediated growth arrest did not protect glioma cells from E2F - 1 - mediated apoptosis .
It is well established that tobacco smoke is a tumor initiator , but we asked whether it also acts as a tumor promoter once malignant initiation , such as caused by K - ras activation , has taken place .
In patients who transform to overt MDS or AML , hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is the only chance for cure .
METHODS : Patients diagnosed with chronic CSC , with clinical evidence of activity and treated with Photodynamic Therapy , are included in this report .
The fact that the apoptotic and antiproliferative functions of p53 can be dissociated in certain mutants also suggests another level of complexity in the relationships between p53 inactivation and neoplasia .
The regulation of cell survival functions by Pak1 - DLC1 interaction represents a novel mechanism by which a signaling kinase might regulate the cancerous phenotypes .
We used microdialysis to sample IL - 8 in normal human breast tissue in situ in pre - and postmenopausal women , preoperatively in breast cancers of women , and in experimental breast cancer in mice .
RESULTS : VEGF isoforms and its receptors ' mRNA were expressed in neuroblastoma and control tissues .
OBJECTIVE : Although DCC has been considered as a candidate tumor suppressor , the roles it plays in the uterine endometrium and in the carcinogenic process remains unclear .
Collagen XII is a complex multidomain protein associated with the surface of interstitial collagen fibrils .
This negative regulation is mediated by the cytoskeleton as the disruption of interactions between the PSMA cytoplasmic tail and the anchor protein filamin A decreases PSMA activity , integrin function , and PAK activation .
Blood and vascular disorders underlie a plethora of pathologic conditions and are the single most frequent cause of human disease .
Angiopoietin / tie - 2 as mediators of angiogenesis : a role in congestive heart failure ?
Using DsRed - tagged Crk and a fluorescent time - lapse microscope , we showed that Crk was recruited to the nascent focal complex after ephrin - B1 stimulation .
In addition , the results of the previously tested transketolase like 1 protein ( TKTL1 ) expression were correlated to LDH5 expression .
UFT and its metabolites inhibit the angiogenesis induced by murine renal cell carcinoma , as determined by a dorsal air sac assay in mice .
In addition , Brk1 downregulation results in defective directional migration and invasive growth in renal cell carcinoma cells as well as in other tumor cell types .
The specific enhancement of tumor proliferation in vitro .
Angiotensin II ( Ang II ) is a potent vasoconstrictor that increases concomitant with sFlt - 1 during pregnancy .
We have used a quantitative assay in vitro to demonstrate that mast cells release a factor that significantly increases bovine capillary endothelial cell migration .
5 - Azacytidine , a potent DNA methylation inhibitor , induced growth of large colonies in soft agar cultures of Rat 6 or Rat 6 / c - myc cells .
The migration activity of heparin and mast cell conditioned medium was blocked by specific antagonists of heparin ( protamine and heparinase ) , but not by chondroitinase ABC .
Given its recently - described role as an inflammatory mediator , VEGF could also contribute to the inflammatory responses observed in cerebral ischemia .
GM - CSF and IL - 2 vaccine therapy and pretreatment with gammaIFN represent effective strategies in reducing hepatic tumor .
Furthermore , we have searched for the underlying mechanisms of apoptosis by demonstrating apoptosis - related genes .
Thus , pVHL appears to participate in the elimination of misprocessed proteins , such as those arising in the cell due to the unavailability of glucose or to other stresses .
Synthetic vascular prostheses are foreign bodies , so that blood coagulation can occur on their luminal surfaces , causing graft occlusion very frequently in prostheses of small diameter .
beta2 - glycoprotein I ( beta2GPI ) is proteolytically cleaved by plasmin in its domain V ( nicked beta2GPI ) , resulting in binding to plasminogen .
Exposure to combinations of paclitaxel or carboplatin and 317615 x 2HCl with MX - 1 cells in culture resulted in cell survival that reflected primarily additivity of the two agents .
The field is currently in ascendance due to two factors .
Joint haemorrhage and subsequent haemophilic arthropathy are significant complications in haemophilia .
A possible explanation for the decrease in the ATP level might be interaction of the amine oxide with the cell membrane .
Such cases may be considered either examples of a single primary carcinoma with metastasis or as synchronous primary neoplasms .
VM - targeting strategies for ovarian cancer include anti - VEGF - a treatment , knocking down the EphA2 gene and using antibodies against human MMPs if the tumor is VM positive .
Over - expression of either rho gene was sufficient to confer anchorage - and serum - independent growth .
Immunostaining and Western blot revealed a more significant PTEN downregulation in PTEN - methylated CCMs in comparison to PTEN - unmethylated CCMs .
An antibody directed against PDGF receptor beta enhances the antitumor and the anti - angiogenic activities of an anti - VEGF receptor 2 antibody .
However , glycolysis and GLUT - 1 can also be induced independent of HIF - 1alpha by other factors , such as c - Myc and phosphorylated Akt ( pAkt ) .
Recently , it has become apparent that microRNAs ( miRNAs ) also contribute to EBV ' s oncogenic properties ; recombinant EBVs that lack the BHRF1 miRNA cluster display a reduced ability to transform B lymphocytes in vitro .
Anti - IL - 6 therapy is a new strategy in the inflammatory autoimmune diseases and cancer .
Despite these suggestive observations , no formal proof is as yet available for the concept that angiogenesis is a physiologic event that occurs all over the mature mammalian integument whenever hair follicles switch from resting ( telogen ) to active growth ( anagen ) .
NF - kappaB and IKK as therapeutic targets in cancer .
Our aim was to investigate the role of tumor lymphangiogenesis during metastasis .
These cells were negative for Hep par - 1 , carcinoembryonic antigen , neural cell adhesion molecule , CD34 , CD31 and HMB45 .
The present study was therefore designed to evaluate the expression of thrombospondin 1 and 2 ( TSP - 1 , TSP - 2 ) , TSP receptors CD36 and CD47 , and matrix - metalloproteases 2 and 9 ( MMP - , MMP - 9 ) in a rat prostate cancer model .
IL - 18 , originally identified as interferon - gamma inducing factor ( IGIF ) , is related to the IL - 1 family in terms of its structure as well as its processing , receptor , signal transduction pathway and pro - inflammatory properties .
We used neutralizing Abs to show that the IFN - inducible protein - 10 and monokine - induced by IFN - gamma chemokines are pivotal in inducing these effects .
Preliminary data suggest that TnI may be competing with bFGF for interaction with the bFGF receptor on responsive cells .
However , in N - ras - transformed cell clones , RA - induced expression of these homeobox genes is delayed .
Large lesions with relatively good visual acuity ( 20 / 50 or better ) may be at particular risk for marked vision loss following verteporfin administration .
PURPOSE : Tumor fibroblasts ( TF ) have been suggested to play an essential role in the complex process of tumor - stroma interactions and tumorigenesis .
Androgen stimulates glycolysis for de novo lipid synthesis by increasing the activities of hexokinase 2 and 6 - phosphofructo - 2 - kinase / fructose - 2 , 6 - bisphosphatase 2 in prostate cancer cells .
Infection with retroviruses containing transforming genes of the src and ras oncogene families led to rapid loss of epidermal growth factor dependence , in some cases , accompanied by alterations in cellular morphology .
In unchallenged endothelial cells , fibrillar collagen induced robust capillary morphogenesis .
The success of current systemic and intravesical therapeutic agents , such as cisplatin , thiotepa , Adriamycin , mitomycin C , and bacillus Calmette - Guerin , is limited with recurrence rates reduced to 17 - 44 % .
TEL is biallelically disrupted in acute leukemia , and loss of heterozygosity at the TEL locus has been observed in various cancers .
Assessment of starved HUVECs at 14 days demonstrated sixfold more cells for AdCMV . VEGF165 - infected HUVECs ( 20 pfu per cell ) than for either infected or uninfected control cells .
PP also resulted in less connective tissue formation and foreign - body reaction than PF and PS prostheses .
Similar results were obtained with phVEGF121 , phVEGF165 , and phVEGF189 , which suggests that these isoforms are biologically equivalent with respect to in vivo angiogenesis .
Chronic inflammation is a common underlying condition for human tumor development , accounting for approximately 20 % of human cancers .
Expression of hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 was localized to immune and granulosa cells of normal ovarian tissue .
This reduction disappeared with increasing distance from the tumor .
A high TP expression at tumor sites is correlated with tumor growth , induction of angiogenesis , and metastasis .
Targeting tumour pericytes is a promising anti - angiogenic therapy but requires identifying the mechanisms of their recruitment in tumour and addressing whether these mechanisms can be selectively harnessed .
Activation of PKA ( cAMP - dependent protein kinase ) by androgen increased phosphorylation of CREB [ CRE ( cAMP - response element ) - binding protein ] , which in turn bound to CRE on the promoter of the HK2 gene resulting in transcriptional activation of the HK2 gene .
We also established that doxorubicin treatment induces proliferation arrest and FOXO3a nuclear relocation in sensitive breast cancer cells .
Although only further research will determine the exact nature of VEGF ' s role after seizures , preliminary data indicate that VEGF plays a protective role after seizures .
Then , we examined the role of two major downstream molecules of Crk , Rac1 and Rap1 .
However , in rap1GAPII - expressing cells , ephrin - B1 did not induce membrane spreading , probably due to instability of the focal complex .
In this review focus will be on OPN in bone and its role in adhesion , migration and cell survival .
BMECs co - expressing SV40T , hTERT and N - ras exhibited an overtly transformed phenotype ; forming very large colonies with an altered morphology and generating rapidly growing tumours in vivo .
Furthermore , we demonstrate that increased vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) - A secretion by tumor cells , as well as activation of VEGF receptor - 2 in bone marrow cells does not alter the mobilization and incorporation of marrow - derived endothelial progenitors into tumor vasculature .
RESULTS : VEGF - C expression was higher in lymphatic metastasis group ( PI = 12 . 169 + / - 2 . 778 ) than in no - metastasis group ( PI = 8 . 498 + / - 2 . 674 , P < 0 . 05 ) .
The rationale for therapeutic angiogenesis is discussed , together with the most recent results from randomised trials in patients with peripheral arterial disease .
The induction of elevated p53 levels commenced at immediate - early times of the HCMV multiplication cycle ( 6 h postinfection ) and reached maximal levels by 24 h postinfection , before most of the HCMV DNA synthesis was initiated .
Inhibition of the endothelial cell autocrine angiotensin system , with either the angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor lisinopril or the angiotensin II receptor antagonist sar1 , ile8 - angiotensin II , leads to increased endothelial cell migration and urokinase - like plasminogen activator ( u - PA ) activity ( Bell , L . , and J . A . Madri . 1990 . Am . J . Pathol . 137 : 7 - 12 ) .
Differentially expressed genes were identified , and a subset was evaluated by quantitative real - time PCR and immunohistochemistry .
These results show that the actin - binding domain of Abl enhances leukemia development but does not appear to be an absolute requirement for leukemogenesis .
Role of the fibrinolytic and matrix metalloproteinase systems in development of adipose tissue .
These findings strongly support an enhanced role for this pathway in clear cell carcinomas by regulating angiogenesis and / or lymphangiogenesis .
To better understand the activity of cediranib against VEGFR - 3 and its associated signaling events compared with its activity against VEGFR - 2 , we used the receptor - specific ligands VEGF - E and VEGF - C156S .
In contrast , therapeutic angiogenesis is based on the concept that coronary collateral development may be stimulated by pharmacological or molecular means and can limit myocardial ischemia .
These chemicals differ from the direct - acting mutagens tested previously .
Experimental results and theoretical calculations suggest that in glucose - containing medium the Na + transport increases from 0 . 75 to 1 . 78 pmol / hour per cell .
The nm23 - H1 gene product has been considered as an anti - metastatic protein and the level of its expression has been reported to correlate inversely with metastatic potential in some cancers .
Angiostatin and thalidomide both inhibited tumor growth by about 55 % .
In summary , these novel studies identify and characterize a marked glucose - modulated activation response of the type II hexokinase gene to hypoxic conditions within highly glycolytic hepatoma cells , a property that may help assure that such cells exhibit a growth and survival advantage over their parental cells of origin .
The interaction between the vascular endothelium and hemodynamic forces ( and more specifically , fluid shear stress ) , induced by the flow of blood , plays a major role in vascular remodeling and in new blood vessels formation via a process termed arteriogenesis .
Having identified the nucleolar localisation sequence in BAG - 1L , we showed that mutation of this sequence did not prevent BAG - 1L from potentiating VDR activity .
The putative metastasis suppressor genes , NME1 ( nm23 - 1 ) and NME2 ( nm23 - 2 ) , were examined in a model system we developed to approximate the dissemination of melanoma from a primary skin tumor .
Gross evaluation included shrinkage and stiffness .
Immunohistochemistry examinations in the human surgical specimens have shown that a downregulation of TSP - 1 during the progression of cervical carcinogenesis was accompanied by an emergence in the upregulation of stroma markers , alpha - smooth muscle actin ( alpha - SMA ) and desmin .
Altogether , these results suggest a new approach to promote angiogenesis by controlling Notch signaling , and may provide new options to treat patients with diseases that diminish angiogenic responsiveness .
Radiologic defect area measurement results at 0 , 4 , and 16 weeks were compared between the groups .
We present evidence that apoptosis of caspase - 3 - deficient MCF - 7 breast cancer cells is defective in response to cisplatin treatment , as determined by chromatin condensation , nuclear fragmentation , DNA fragmentation , and release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria .
Weaning IL - 2 ( null ) x beta ( 2 ) m ( null ) mice were randomized to receive 0 ( deficient ; n = 40 ) , 2 ( basal requirement ; control ; n = 46 ) , or 8 ( supplemented ; n = 36 ) mg folate / kg diet for 32 weeks .
Low concentrations of SN - 38 , but not 5 - FU and L - OHP , preferentially inhibited endothelial cell proliferation .
Pbx1 is a downstream target of Evi - 1 in hematopoietic stem / progenitors and leukemic cells .
The mode of Ca2 + entry regulating cell shape is unknown .
Adenovirus 5 early region 1A ( E1A ) has been shown to exhibit high tumor suppressor activity , and gene therapy using E1A has been tested in clinical trials .
METHODS : Grafted animals for corneal survival analysis were assigned to receive either spironolactone suspension ( orally , 100 mg / kg / day , n = 7 ) , phosphate - buffered saline ( PBS , orally , same volume as spironolactone , n = 9 ) or remained untreated ( n = 16 ) .
3 - Chloromethylthiochromone - 1 , 1 - dioxide was observed to be a potent inhibitor of Ehrlich ascites carcinoma growth and a moderate inhibitor of P - 388 lymphocytic leukemia growth at 10 mg / kg / day .
This study shows that angiogenin expression is up - regulated in the cytoplasmic and nuclear compartments in in situ carcinoma and invasive carcinoma compared with normal breast tissue and that angiogenin expression in invasive carcinomas is significantly positively associated with high tumour grade ( p = 0 . 03 ) , positive oestrogen receptor ( ER ) status ( p = 0 . 01 ) , HIF - 1 alpha ( p = 0 . 001 ) and DEC 1 ( p = 0 . 001 ) , but not with patient age ( p = 0 . 8 ) , tumour size ( p = 0 . 25 ) , lymph node status ( p = 0 . 69 ) , epidermal growth factor receptor ( p = 0 . 56 ) or microvessel density ( p = 0 . 32 ) .
These drugs , however , exhibit severe side effects and are expensive .
Enhanced DNA - binding activity of a Stat3 - related protein in cells transformed by the Src oncoprotein .
PI3K / Akt - dependent transcriptional regulation and activation of BMP - 2 - Smad signaling by NF - kappaB in metastatic prostate cancer cells .
The apparent molecular weights of the collagenolytic enzymes were determined by electrophoresis of cell extracts and concentrated conditioned medium in type IV collagen - embedded polyacrylamide gels followed by renaturation and activation of the enzymes within the gels .
Cancer cells typically display gene dysfunction and endogenous or exogenous insults resulting in gene dysfunction are often carcinogenic .
Nevertheless , for both viruses the leukemic blasts retained full factor dependence for growth .
BACKGROUND : Inhibition of angiogenesis reverses rodent obesity .
In vivo studies with athymic nude mice demonstrated that injection of atx - transfected NIH3T3 cells resulted in a weak tumorigenic capacity with few experimental metastases .
Subcellular localisation of BAG - 1 and its regulation of vitamin D receptor - mediated transactivation and involucrin expression in oral keratinocytes : implications for oral carcinogenesis .
The antiproliferative effect of HAH - cortisol on endothelial cells appeared independent of the glucocorticoid activity of the steroid since HAH conjugated to 5 beta - pregnane - 3 alpha , 17 alpha , 21 - triol - 20 - one , a steroid lacking glucocorticoid or mineralocorticoid activity , was even more effective at inhibiting DNA synthesis by murine pulmonary capillary endothelial cells than was HAH - cortisol .
Bolus incubation was carried out to determine effects of doxorubicin accumulated during the first 3h , whereas continuous incubation allowed further ( continuous ) exposure to doxorubicin .
In the present study , we performed a series of molecular imaging experiments using a HIF - 1 - dependent reporter gene , 5HREp - ODD - luc , and found an essential role of the Akt / mTOR pathway .
In contrast , less than 5 % of the DNA was fragmented in cells incubated with GM - CSF plus FBS or GM - CSF alone .
In addition , comparison of both groups revealed a significantly higher increase in TGF - beta1 , IGF - I , IGFBP - 3 , and hGH in the lengthening group during the distraction period , indicating key regulatory functions in mechanotransduction .
Aberrant angiogenesis is often associated with lesion formation in chronic periodontitis .
Thus , inhibition of either ERK or Sp1 suppressed M - CSF - induced VEGF at the mRNA and protein level .
The aim of this study is to compare behavior and tissue response between two new polyester prostheses and a commonly used polypropylene ( PP ) mesh .
Here clinical outcome is updated and its correlation with new immunological data is shown .
Two natural models of ovine IUGR are those of hyperthermic exposure during pregnancy , and adolescent overfeeding , also during pregnancy .
Surgical specimens from 20 cases of OSCC with lymph node metastasis , 20 cases of OSCC without lymph node metastasis , and 10 cases of normal mucosa were examined by immunohistochemistry .
Previous work demonstrates that the LMP1 gene of EBV is sufficient to transform certain established rodent fibroblast cell lines and to induce the tumorigenicity of some human epithelial cell lines .
Inhibition of STAT3 activation by expressing a dominant - negative STAT3 protein or a STAT3 - shRNA prevented the OSM - mediated arrest .
While the role of protein tyrosine kinases has been examined extensively in human breast tumorigenesis , the role of PTPases in this process is virtually unknown .
One cell line ( ESM - 1 ) derived from the erythrophores transfected with src / myc grew successively over nine months , indicating its acquisition of immortality .
RESULTS : P14 and P18 blocked endothelial cell chemotaxis ; P18 and P23 induced apoptosis .
Here we show that GR activation leads to both the rapid induction of MAPK phosphatase - 1 ( MKP - 1 ) mRNA and its sustained expression .
Each was legally blind before treatment ( n = 1 ) , experienced little to no subjective improvement ( n = 2 ) , or was poorly compliant ( n = 2 ) .
Participation of p53 cellular tumour antigen in transformation of normal embryonic cells .
The heat shock proteins ( HSPs ) centered and NF - kappaB centered networks were also enriched in the result , which may imply the key function of inflaming on metastasis .
Hypoxia - inducible factor 1 activation by aerobic glycolysis implicates the Warburg effect in carcinogenesis .
Binding studies with SPARC and SPARC peptides indicate specific and saturable interaction with smooth muscle cells that involves the C - terminal Ca2 + - binding region of the protein .
The expression of PTEN mRNA and protein was negatively correlated with lymph node metastasis of advanced gastric carcinomas ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Overexpression of these proteins is independent of the transcriptional upregulation of their genes , and occurs only in highly malignant breast cancer cells .
Rapid endothelial cell migration and inhibition of thrombosis are critical for the resolution of denudation injuries to the vessel wall .
Inhibitor of differentiation - 1 ( Id - 1 ) is a member of helix - loop - helix ( HLH ) family of proteins that regulate gene transcription through their inhibitory binding to basic - HLH transcription factors .
Loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 in gastric carcinoma .
Effect of estrogen and progesterone on macrophage activation during wound healing .
Similar results were also obtained with respect to 5 - FU .
As pregnancy advanced the complexity of the vasculature increased : at 4 weeks the surface showed a pattern of ridges separated by troughs .
In these cells , SDF - 1alpha - induced migration was observed and was blocked by AMD3100 , a specific inhibitor of CXCR4 .
Molecular mechanisms of pituitary tumorigenesis were studied using Polymerase chain reaction - single stranded conformational polymorphism with DNA sequencing to identify potential mutations in the ras protooncogenes and the tumor suppressor gene p53 in invasive pituitary adenomas and carcinomas .
In this review , the mechanisms and factors involved in tumor blood vessel formation are discussed .
Onconase similarly inhibited proliferation in all three cell lines ( IC ( 50 ) = 0 . 3 - 1 . 0 microM ) while ( - 4 ) rhEDN was more effective on immortalized HUVEC cell lines ( IC ( 50 ) = 0 . 02 - 0 . 06 microM ) than on primary HUVECs ( IC ( 50 ) > 0 . 1 microM ) .
In this review we will discuss the mechanism of action , as well as the preclinical and clinical results , of one of the most promising antitubulin agents : the combretastatin A4 - phosphate derivative , AVE8062A .
We conditionally activated N - myc in SH - EP neuroblastoma cells subjected to the trophic stress of serum or nutrient deprivation while changing the expression of Bcl - 2 , survivin and FLIP ( L ) , antiapoptotic molecules often overexpressed in poor prognosis neuroblastomas .
Newly formed bone densities were also found to be higher in these 2 groups .
The stimulation of inositol phosphate generation in control and ras - gene - transformed NIH - 3T3 cells by prostaglandin F2 alpha ( PGF2 alpha ) was investigated .
Pathological analysis indicated that generated tumors corresponded to well - differentiated fibrosarcomas with distinct and intersecting bundles and spindle cells .
To investigate how CSC contribute to tumor vascular development , we used an approach comparing tumor xenografts of the C6 glioma cell line containing either a low or a high fraction of CSC .
Early administration of prednisolone ( day 3 , low and high dose ) resulted in the recultivation of significantly more C . albicans .
The connection between collagen type VII deficiency , increased collagenase , and squamous cell carcinoma is not understood .
Here we show that angiogenesis is severely impaired in PSMA - null animals and that this angiogenic defect occurs at the level of endothelial cell invasion through the extracellular matrix barrier .
Reduced oncogenicity of p190 Bcr / Abl F - actin - binding domain mutants .
Thus , it is highly unlikely that the p53 molecule per se carries intrinsic or even associated kinase activities .
Troponin I ( TnI ) is a novel cartilage - derived angiogenesis inhibitor , first demonstrated by Moses et al .
In addition , we report here the identification of two RNA transcripts of type II - like tumor HK of approximately 5 . 5 and approximately 4 . 0 kb in these cancer cells lines , including muscle - derived L6 myoblast cells .
In contrast VEGF - B was not regulated by VHL despite clear up - regulation in vivo .
Systematic proteomic studying of the mechanism of hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) metastasis remains challenging .
This study examines the mechanism of HKa and D5 inhibition of two potent stimulators of endothelial cell migration , sphingosine 1 - phosphate ( S1P ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , that act through the P13 - kinase - Akt signaling pathway .
Endothelialization was present at anastomotic sites , but other areas were covered with fresh thrombi .
alpha - MSH also induces activation of NF - kappa B but does not modulate DNA binding on costimulation with IL - 1 beta .
CONCLUSIONS : LDH5 is overexpressed in NSCLC and could hence serve as an additional marker for malignancy .
These changes should diminish apoptosis activity in the tumor cells .
Our findings support a novel role for pyruvate in metabolic signaling and suggest a mechanism by which high rates of aerobic glycolysis can promote the malignant transformation and survival of cancer cells .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and Angiopoietin 1 ( Ang1 ) are both potent proangiogenic factors , but , whereas VEGF causes vascular permeability , Ang1 stabilizes blood vessels and protects them from VEGF - induced plasma leakage .
The data presented here demonstrate that transcriptional activation of cyclin D1 can oncogenically transform B - cells in concert with a myc gene .
Therapeutic angiogenesis : a complex problem requiring a sophisticated approach .
Both levels of dietary CLA showed similar effects , with the number of RBC - containing vessels per 20x field decreased to a third of that seen in control .
Oxygen metabolism has an important role in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis .
KISS1 methylation and expression as tumor stratification biomarkers and clinical outcome prognosticators for bladder cancer patients .
To determine whether changes in angiogenesis are responsible for the decrease in progesterone synthesis , we measured hemoglobin and CD34 levels in luteinized ovaries following injection of COX inhibitors and measured the relative frequency of cells positive for platelet - endothelial cell adhesion molecule as a specific marker for endothelial cells .
Syndecan - 1 expression in mammary epithelial tumor cells is E - cadherin - dependent .
We have evaluated the effect of thalidomide on VEGF secretion , cell migration , adhesion as well as in capillary formation of human endothelial cell line EA . hy 926 .
Nitric oxide ( NO ) is an important molecule in regulating tumour blood flow and stimulating tumour angiogenesis .
Topo I expression now needs to be evaluated in patients undergoing topo I - inhibitor therapy , to better define the role of this protein as a predictive marker .
There was also a significant correlation between VEGF - C and both of its receptors flt - 4 ( P = 0 . 006 ) and KDR ( P = 0 . 03 ) but no association between VEGF - B and its receptor flt - 1 ( P = 0 . 23 ) .
This study uses quantitative histomorphometry and double - immunohistologic detection techniques for the demarcation of proliferating endothelial cells , to show that synchronized hair follicle cycling in adolescent C57BL / 6 mice is associated with substantial angiogenesis , and that inhibiting angiogenesis in vivo by the intraperitoneal application of a fumagillin derivative retards experimentally induced anagen development in these mice .
Although contaminating kinases were detectable in the immune complexes , at least the p53 molecules were phosphorylated in vitro in a more specific way .
In the embryonic stem cells homozygous for these hypomorphic Apc alleles , the level of the APC protein was inversely correlated with both the beta - catenin accumulation and beta - catenin / T - cell factor transcriptional activity .
Both polyester prostheses ( PF and PS ) have better tissue integration than the PP mesh , as evidenced by the higher amount of connective tissue and lower extent of fibrous encapsulation .
Cytogenetic examination of Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) p21 ( - / - ) sarcomas and lymphomas revealed aneuploidy and chromosomal aberrations that were absent in Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) malignancies .
Short pigment epithelial - derived factor - derived peptide inhibits angiogenesis and tumor growth .
Emodin , at a 40 - microM concentration , which repressed tyrosine kinase of p185neu , efficiently inhibited both anchorage - dependent and anchorage - independent growth of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells .
Cells treated with anti - Fas also exhibited increased tyrosine phosphorylation of the c - met growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase .
The aim of the present study was to clarify how expression of p53 protein participates in angiogenesis , and whether the coexpression of VEGF and p53 protein has a significance for angiogenesis and the clinicopathological features in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) .
We have constructed a recombinant adenovirus that expresses murine endostatin that is biologically active both in vitro , as determined in endothelial cell proliferation assays , and in vivo , by suppression of angiogenesis induced by vascular endothelial growth factor 165 .
To sum up , our data suggest that the inhibition of metabolic pathways offers a novel and powerful therapeutic approach , which simultaneously inhibits tumor cell proliferation and tumor - induced angiogenesis .
Experiments with nu / nu mice , nonobese diabetic - SCID mice , or activated spc enriched in specific cell subpopulations demonstrated that CD4 ( + ) , CD8 ( + ) , and NK cells are all needed to mediate the full anti - angiogenetic effect of IL - 12 .
Current prospects for controlling cancer growth with non - cytotoxic agents - - nutrients , phytochemicals , herbal extracts , and available drugs .
In oral cancers , cytoplasmic BAG - 1 overexpression is a marker of poor prognosis .
There is a highly significant correlation between the magnitude of changes in the number of cytochalasin B binding sites and the magnitude of changes in glucose uptake .
Cediranib may , therefore , be an effective means of preventing tumor progression , not only by inhibiting VEGFR - 2 activity and angiogenesis , but also by concomitantly inhibiting VEGFR - 3 activity and lymphangiogenesis .
These results show that CX3CR1 - dependent accumulation of subretinal MCs evokes cardinal features of AMD .
Angiotensin II ( ANG II ) , a key regulator of blood pressure and body fluid homeostasis , exerts mitogenic effects on endothelial cells .
Correspondingly , Ang - 2 manipulatory therapies have been shown to exert protumorigenic as well as antitumorigenic effects .
Neuroblastoma cells and Chang hepatocytes are then plated separately with the conditioned medium and their own standard growth medium as controls .
It is considered that resection of the primary tumor induces activation of systemic angiogenesis and enhances progression of remote metastasis .
We show that HIF - 1alpha and VEGF are increased through A3 adenosine receptor stimulation , whereas the effects on IL - 8 are mediated via the A2B subtype .
The HPV oncoprotein E6 is essential for oncogenic transformation .
Additionally , knockdown of p600 reduced transformation of cells expressing both BPV - 1 E6 and E7 , as well as E6 alone , suggesting that the ability of E7 to transformed cells is mediated , at least in part , through its ability to bind p600 .
We report a novel strategy to engineer and express stable and soluble human recombinant polyvalent / polyspecific fusion proteins .
Similar translocations are found in mouse plasmacytomas and both diseases involve interchanges between one of the immunoglobulin loci and DNA in the vicinity of the myc gene .
CONCLUSIONS : These results provide support for the use of 2ME2 in combination with paclitaxel for the treatment of recurrent or advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
UK infusion prior to 5 - fluorouracil increased tissue concentration of antitumor agent .
Four selected cell hybrids expressed the human transforming gene product p21 at levels of 10 to 30 % compared to 100 % in the transformed parental cells .
4 - Dodecylmorpholine N - oxide ( DMNO ) , one of the most active compounds , decreased the level of ATP immediately after addition to the suspension of Ehrlich cells in an ice bath .
There was positive correlation between PTEN mRNA expression and LOH of microsatellites in advanced gastric carcinomas .
The volume density of blood vessels between the two investigated areas was significantly lower in the 1 mm / day groups , suggesting a delay in angiogenesis in this group of patients .
This result indicates that CREB functions in the signaling pathway between Akt and MMP .
Convenience of administration , tolerability , and patient factors not necessarily age may be considerations in decisions about adjuvant therapy after resection .
These results indicate that Pbx1 is a target gene of Evi - 1 involved in Evi - 1 - mediated leukemogenesis .
CONCLUSION : In MEN II A patients undergoing prophylactic thyroidectomy , baseline but not stimulated calcitonin levels already correlate with the histologic tumor stage at the stage of clinically occult C - cell hyperplasia or medullary microcarcinoma .
SOC activation in rat pulmonary arterial endothelial cells increased free cytosolic Ca2 + that was dependent on a membrane current having a net inward component of 5 . 45 + / - 0 . 90 pA / pF at - 80 mV .
By 21 days post - injury , all activity had returned to near baseline level .
The data support the concept that a positive relationship exists between the density of blood vessels and the formation of bone .
Because there is little information on the expression of topo I in colorectal tumors , this study evaluated and characterized topo I protein expression in primary colorectal cancer and lymph node metastases and studied the association between topo I protein expression and clinicopathologic data , p53 status , and proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( PCNA ) status .
METHODS : Bovine aortic endothelial cells ( ECs ) were cultured .
The cell cycle progression and sub - G1 population were analysed by flow cytometry .
We demonstrate that a proteoglycan decorin ( DCN ) up - regulates the vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression with activation of VEGF regulating transcription factors Sp1 , hypoxia - inducible factor 1alpha ( HIF1alpha ) , and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 ( Stat3 ) via epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) , mitogen - activated protein kinase extracellular signal - regulated kinase 1 / 2 ( ERK1 / 2 ) , and protein kinase B ( AKT ) pathways in DCN transfected mouse cerebral endothelial ( MCE ) cells .
Therefore , it is possible that loss of final sigma expression contributes to malignant transformation by impairing the G ( 2 ) cell cycle checkpoint function , thus allowing an accumulation of genetic defects .
Twenty - one percent of clinically unaffected family members had elevated levels of bFGF , and 13 % of patients with EBS had elevated levels of bFGF .
Studies with polymerase inhibitors suggest that this LTR transcript , designated let ( LTR - encoded trans activator ) , is a product of RNA polymerase III .
METHODS : Immunohistochemistry was used to determine the distribution of opticin in normal human CBE , and in hyperplastic and neoplastic CBE lesions .
The expression of endostatin in situ and its maintaining time were detected by immunohistochemistry and Western Blot , respectively .
Attenuating galectin - 1 expression by siRNA constrained PTTG - HA / EC9706 cell motility ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
These parameters were correlated with histology to obtain a radiological - histological map of tumour microvasculature .
Antibodies developed to human endosialin were used to investigate endosialin expression and function in human prenatal brain pericytes and pericytes residing in tumors .
Cotreatment of cell lines with a hormone and its specific antagonist blocked the effect of the hormone .
To test this possibility , CD2 / F ( 1 ) mice were placed on synthetic diets containing 0 , 1 , or 2 % CLA for 6 weeks , before angiogenic challenge by s . c . injection with an angiogenic gel substrate ( Matrigel pellet assay ) .
Metabolic alterations in a noncachectic animal tumor system .
They establish cyclin D1 as a proto - oncogene whose activity appears to depend on a specific cell type as well as on a specific cooperating partner and link disturbances in the regulation of cell cycle progression to the development of human malignancies .
Regulation of skin microvasculature angiogenesis , cell migration , and permeability by a specific inhibitor of PKCalpha .
Immunohistochemical staining demonstrated VEGF in the tissues surrounding the Matrigel plugs containing AdCMV . VEGF165 up to 3 weeks after injection , whereas no VEGF was found in the control plugs with AdCMV . beta gal .
In this study , we used a Cdkn2a - deficient mouse melanocyte cell line to screen for secondary genetic events in melanoma tumor progression .
Ectopic localization of mitochondrial ATP synthase : a target for anti - angiogenesis intervention ?
CONCLUSIONS : These results suggest that , despite correlation of nm23 - H1 allelic deletions with colon cancers associated with poor prognosis , nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 alleles do not directly mediate metastasis suppression in colon carcinoma .
Tumour - specific distribution of BRCA1 promoter region methylation supports a pathogenetic role in breast and ovarian cancer .
A series of our studies revealed that for activation of the invasion pathway of EGFR , it is prerequisite that Arf6 and AMAP1 both are highly overexpressed , and that EGFR is activated by ligands .
TEL , a putative tumor suppressor , modulates cell growth and cell morphology of ras - transformed cells while repressing the transcription of stromelysin - 1 .
The epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGF - R , c - erbB1 ) , Her - 2 / neu ( c - erbB2 ) , and c - erbB3 are members of the erbB - family .
These results indicate a possible role of L - NAME for the treatment of solid tumours in a systemic or regional setting .
The apoptosis induced by Sim is probably initiated by the mitochondrial caspase 9 , which indirectly leads to activation of caspase 3 and 8 .
p21 delays tumor onset by preservation of chromosomal stability .
At intervals of four to 14 days , the animals were challenged by intrastromal inoculation with 10 , 000 plaque - forming units of viable HSV .
This work provides a demonstration that a combination of bioinformatics and comparative proteomics can help in finding out potential biomarkers associated with HCC metastasis on the level of pathways .
Here , we demonstrate that Ang1 halts the ability of VEGF to induce the phosphorylation - dependent redistribution of the adhesion molecule VE - cadherin , thereby rescuing the endothelial barrier function .
Furthermore , reduction of Pbx1 levels through RNAi - mediated knockdown significantly inhibited Evi - 1 - induced transformation .
In addition , expression of the constitutively active form of RhoA results in TSH - independent proliferation and anchorage - independent growth and induces tumors when inoculated in nude mice .
Experimental flaps were found to be perfused fully with fluorescein and lead oxide ; control fat pads were found not to be perfused .
Transgenic mice engineered to express human endosialin bred on an immunocompromised background allowed the growth of human tumor xenografts .
Rats were immunized with irradiated hepatoma cells transduced by herpes viral amplicon vectors containing the genes for GM - CSF , IL - 2 or LacZ .
Reverse transcription - polymerase chain reaction and Western blot assays were used to investigate expression of Bcl - 2 and Bax .
No difference in relapse - free ( p = 0 . 26 ) or overall ( p = 0 . 63 ) survival was observed in patients stratified by angiogenin expression .
TS expression of the primary oral cancer cells in the group with lymph node metastasis was higher than that of those without .
To clarify the role of Ang - 2 for angiogenesis and tumor growth in a definite genetic experimental setting , the present study was aimed at comparatively studying the growth of different tumors in wild - type and Ang - 2 - deficient mice .
Injection of indomethacin , a nonselective COX inhibitor , on the day of ovulation and the following day decreased serum levels of progesterone , as did injection of the selective COX - II inhibitor NS - 398 .
Tumor angiogenesis might contribute to tumor malignant progression by inhibiting spontaneous apoptosis in LSCC .
Tumour angiogenesis involves multiple cellular processes including endothelial cell proliferation , migration , reorganisation of extracellular matrix and tube formation .
IL - 1Ra also improved islet vascularization , reduced fibrosis and ameliorated glycemia .
Media supplemented with and without 10 % Oxygent were compared in all assessments .
The special attention is focused on the ambiguity of the neutrophil role in oncogenesis .
On the other hand , MnSO4 only induced transformation in Rat 6 / c - myc cells , but not the parental Rat 6 cells .
The induction of elevated p53 levels was determined not to be due to virus - receptor interactions or HCMV late events .
Blockage of the Akt pathway attenuated CREB activation , and a decrease in CREB expression reduced cellular migration / invasion and activity of MMPs .
Thus TF , in addition to factors downstream of the coagulation cascade and the protease - activated receptor 2 activation system , would be a multifactorial regulator of atherogenesis .
To understand the molecular basis of carcinogenesis from the beginning to the full acquirement of malignancy , factors concerned with carcinogenesis were categorized into three groups : those guarding and stabilizing genomes , those regulating cell proliferation , and those conferring resistance to various micro - environmental stresses .
METHODS AND MATERIALS : The prospective trial included 287 patients with subfoveal neovascularization due to AMD which was verified by fluorescein angiography .
To understand the biologic mechanisms of this extremely effective response , we compared by microarray the gene - expression profile of patients ' biopsies taken before and after radiation .
This review will focus on recent studies to define the molecular mechanisms for the antivascular actions of the MBDs , information that could be useful in the identification or design of agents whose actions more selectively target the tumor vasculature .
One of the most fundamental is the ability to act as essential growth checkpoint that protects cells against cellular transformation .
The UFO proto - oncogene maps to human chromosome 19q13 . 1 and is transcribed into two 5 . 0 kb and 3 . 2 kb mRNAs in human bone marrow and human tumor cell lines .
CONCLUSION : In early - stage breast cancer patients , overexpression of c - erbB2 is a marker of lack of efficacy of adjuvant tamoxifen .
The malate - citrate cycle was studied during aerobic glycolysis and glutaminolysis in a strain of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells which showed a very low malate - aspartate shuttle system activity .
Folate supplementation may reduce the risk of colorectal dysplasia and cancer in subjects with chronic ulcerative colitis ( UC ) .
Left ventricular weight , body weight , and their ratio were not significantly altered by alinidine treatment .
This is a randomized , open label , prospective study that examined the effect of preventive zoledronic acid treatment on the development of bone metastases in patients with recurrent solid tumors , without bone metastases at the time of randomization .
PURPOSE : To determine the most efficient time point and concentration of topical corticosteroids in Candida albicans keratitis treated with fluconazole .
This is the largest study to date evaluating COX - 2 inhibitors as adjunctive therapy in haemophilia and suggests that these agents may be an important adjunctive therapy in the management of haemophilia .
External beam radiotherapy for subretinal neovascularization in age - related macular degeneration : is this treatment efficient ?
Both basal ( 2 . 3 + / - 0 . 2 mumol / 100 g / minute , P = 0 . 061 ) and insulin - stimulated ( 8 . 5 + / - 1 . 9 mumol / 100 g / minute , P = 0 . 055 ) skeletal arm muscle glucose uptake rates were higher in control subjects than in patients .
Sequence analysis of CDC4 / FBXW7 was carried out on gastric carcinoma cell lines and xenografts .
The p53 tumor suppressor plays pivotal role in the organism by supervising strict compliance of individual cells to needs of the whole organisms .
TNFalpha treatment in cultured cells resulted in increased gene mutations , gene amplification , micronuclei formation and chromosomal instability .
PURPOSE : To describe visual acuity and angiographic outcomes of juxtafoveal choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) treated with photodynamic therapy and verteporfin ( PDT ) .
We also show that Akt pathway mediates IGF1 - R - induced Bcl - x ( L ) expression at transcriptional level .
We also observed an overlap between C / EBPbeta and COX - 2 expression in GC .
VEGF and p53 protein were significantly coexpressed in 26 ( 43 . 4 % ) .
Here , the pattern of expression of angiogenin during the transition from normal breast tissue to ductal carcinoma in situ and invasive carcinoma is reported together with the correlates between the level of angiogenin in 239 invasive carcinomas and standard clinicopathological parameters , hypoxia - inducible factor ( HIF ) - 1 alpha and the HIF - 1 alpha target gene DEC - 1 .
The pentapeptide SFLLR , like thrombin , caused a marked stimulation of angiogenesis in the CAM .
These alterations bore similarities to abnormalities in differentiation observed in naturally occurring squamous epithelial malignancies .
( c ) 2010 American Cancer Society .
Assays of electrophoretic mobility , DNA - binding specificity , and antigenicity indicated that Stat3 or a closely related STAT family member was constitutively activated by the Src oncoprotein .
OBJECTIVE : To determine the efficacy of Photodynamic Therapy ( PDT ) in chronic Central Serous Chorioretinopathy ( CSC ) .
Therapeutic angiogenesis is the biological agents or bioactive material to stimulate the growth of new blood vessels .
Since the function of 9E3 / CEF4 is unknown , we examined the effect of the protein on mitogenicity and chemotaxis , as well as its expression , in fibroblasts and peripheral blood cells .
To investigate the possibility that this regulatory connection contributes to Myb ' s oncogenicity , we expressed a dominant negative Myb in the myeloid leukemic cell line RI - 4 - 11 .
These findings are potentially clinically relevant , because HMGA2 expression is reported to be upregulated in a number of human cancers as telomere maintenance is essential for tumorigenesis .
The presence of microvascular proliferation leads to the histological diagnosis of glioblastoma multiforme .
However , owing to the long latency of tumor formation and the sporadic occurrence of bona fide mammary cancers , we conclude that the Tsg101 protein has only weak oncogenic properties .
Measurements of respiration , CO2 and lactate production , and changes in the levels of various key metabolites of the glycolytic sequence and tricarboxylic acid cycle were made on five lines of rodent ascites tumor cells ( two strains of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells , Krebs II carcinoma , AS - 30D carcinoma , and L1210 cells ) incubated aerobically in the presence of uniformly labeled D - [ 14C ] glucose .
Ecotropic viral integration site - 1 ( Evi - 1 ) is a nuclear transcription factor , which is essential for the proliferation / maintenance of hematopoietic stem cells ( HSCs ) .
The mutant which retains only the central region of the v - fos protein ( Met111 - Ile206 ) have both activities , but the mutants which have deletions in this region , and one of the mutants that has a four amino acid insertion in it , lost both activities .
We quantified CYR61 , CTGF , WISP - 1 , and NOV mRNA expression levels in samples from sixty - six primary gliomas and five normal brain samples using quantitative real - time PCR assay .
Indeed , these agents are known to activate different pathways of apoptosis .
The angiogenic switch occurred in early stages of pre - malignant tumor formation , and tumor angiogenesis was significantly enhanced in TSP - 2 - deficient mice .
BACKGROUND : Impaired expression of E - cadherin and alpha - and beta - catenin is frequently observed in several human cancers .
Here , we show that the proto - oncogene N - myc promoter was down - regulated by WT1 in transient transfection assays .
Histological examination of ovarian corrosion casts indicated that NS - 398 inhibited the establishment of luteal capillary vessels following the injection of hCG .
Abilities of adhesion , migration , and invasion of CNE1 cell were induced by LMP1 .
However , it is not sufficient for the immortalization of MEF , and MEF - LMP1 ( TRADD ) cells eventually enter growth arrest .
Survivin expression in breast carcinoma : correlation with apoptosis and prognosis .
With U937 cells , tunicamycin treatment resulted in the appearance of a 30 - 40 kDa band and increased staining of a 45 kDa band .
Reduction of TCF activity in these cells attenuates their ability to form brain and bone metastases in mice , independently of effects on tumor growth in the lungs .
Liver tissue spaces , investigated with multiple indicator dilution technique in liver perfusion studies , were unchanged at week 3 after tumor induction .
Tumor cells express the glycolytic regulator pyruvate kinase subtype M2 ( M2 - PK ) , which can occur in a tetrameric form with high affinity to its substrate phosphoenolpyruvate ( PEP ) and a dimeric form with a low PEP affinity .
This suggested that CLA might inhibit angiogenesis in vivo .
This study indicated that urine IL - 8 / Cr levels might be useful as a diagnostic marker of NHL .
Emerging metabolic targets in cancer therapy .
No ocular or systemic bevacizumab - related side effects were observed .
These data suggested that inhibition of p53 - dependent apoptosis may depend on the transcriptional repression function of the 55 - kDa protein , which appears to be regulated be phosphorylation at the carboxy terminus .
Non - specific PKC inhibitors staurosporine and bisindolylmaleimide II as well as inhibitors specific to conventional PKCs ( Go6976 ) and PKC - delta ( rottlerin ) attenuated NF - kappaB activation in BPDE treated cells to a varying degree indicating a possible link between PKC down - regulation and the attenuation of NF - kappaB activity by TSC phenolic fraction .
Endothelial cells bound fluorescein - labeled collagen I fibrils , an interaction specifically inhibited by SMI496 .
Using wound - healing assay and Boyden chamber assay , GA had potent inhibitory effects on AGS cell migration .
Silencing of monocarboxylate transporters via small interfering ribonucleic acid inhibits glycolysis and induces cell death in malignant glioma : an in vitro study .
Importantly , HMGA2 partially replaces the function of hTERT during the tumorigenic transformation of normal human fibroblasts .
E mu cyclin D1 transgenic mice show only very subtle alterations in the cycling behaviour of B - cell populations in the bone marrow compared with normal mice and do not develop lymphoid tumours .
To analyze the contribution of VEGF - C to lymph node metastasis , its corresponding gene was stably introduced into HEC1A cells ( HEC1A / VEGF - C ) , which then produced more than 10 times the amount of VEGF - C .
However , development of consumption coagulopathy characterized by progression from hypercoagulable state to disseminated intravascular coagulation has also been found in several cases .
These data provide evidence that adenosine could modulate the migration of colon cancer cells by an HIF - 1alpha / VEGF / IL - 8 - dependent mechanism and that caffeine has the potential to inhibit colon cancer cell growth .
Melissoidesin G ( MOG ) is a new diterpenoid purified from Isodon melissoides , a plant used in Chinese traditional medicine as antitumor and anti - inflammatory agents .
[ Study on the expression of angiogenesis and spontaneous apoptosis and their relevance in laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma ]
Glutathione supplementation reversed the inhibitory effects of EPOX on ERK , which increases the phosphorylation of Mcl - 1 at T ( 163 . ) Overexpression of mitogen - activated protein / ERK kinase ( MEK ) partially reversed the effect of EPOX on Mcl - 1 dephosphorylation , ubiquitination , and degradation , further implicating ERK in the regulation of Mcl - 1 stability .
Plasminogen activator ( PA ) content of excised tumors was determined by SDS - PAGE , and major PA was found to be urokinase ( UK ) type .
IGF - 1 enhances cell proliferation and survival .
In contrast to CYR61 and CTGF , no significant association was found between expression of either WISP - 1 or NOV versus any of the pathological features .
When MDV was reactivated by treatment of lymphoblastoid cells with 25 micrograms of iododeoxyuridine per ml , the relative levels of the transcripts decreased .
Blood vessels , capillaries , and endothelial pseudopods were found at greater than 100 microns from the capsule ( subcortex ) .
[ A case report of advanced gastric cancer responding to TS - 1 , a novel oral fluorouracil derivative ] .
CONCLUSIONS : MDM2 expression quantified by image analysis was weakly associated with DM .
In addition , reverse transcription - polymerase chain reaction and prostaglandin E ( 2 ) ( PGE ( 2 ) ) immunoassay were performed to verify whether BV possesses an inhibitory effect on the expression of cyclooxygenase ( COX ) and PGE ( 2 ) synthesis .
Thrombin decreases the ability of endothelial cells to attach to basement membrane proteins .
Epidermal growth factor ( EGF ) binds with high affinity and specificity to a single site on the external domain of its transmembrane receptor to activate the tyrosine protein kinase activity of its cytoplasmic portion .
METHODS : We analyzed the hypermethylation status and expression of the gene and 12q13 . 1 loss of heterozygosity in 31 PCNSLs .
This event is independent of fibrin formation .
METHODS : Thirty - eight Wistar albino rats underwent laparotomy to cause intra - abdominal adhesions by mechanical abrasion of the cecum and ethanol application .
Here we show that expression of TEL in Ras - transformed NIH 3T3 cells inhibits cell growth in soft agar and in normal cultures .
In this review , we will discuss the current knowledge of MTSS1 ' s role in cancer metastasis , carcinogenesis , and development .
Effects of 4 - alkylmorpholine N - oxides on ATP - producing processes in Ehrlich ascites and L1210 leukaemia cells .
These results indicate that VEGF - C plays a critical role in lymph node metastasis , in addition to serving as a platform to test the efficacy of various therapeutic modalities against lymph node metastasis .
In 20 RCC patients , serum samples were obtained separately from the bilateral renal veins .
These data suggest that inhibition of B16F10 melanoma metastasis by rk - 2 was caused by inhibition of neovascularization and reduction of matrix metalloproteinase expression .
Treatment involved intravitreal injection of bevacizumab ( 1 . 25 mg in 0 . 05 mL ) every 6 - 12 weeks .
Zero to 10 daily fractions of electron - beam radiation ( 300 cGy each ) were delivered to the implant in the right groin , while the implant in the left groin served as a nonirradiated internal control .
Interestingly , c - Ski overexpression resulted in extensive acceleration of the growth of subcutaneous xenografts in BALB / c nu / nu female mice ( 6 weeks of age ) .
To characterize the effects of CK1delta on SV40 - induced mammary carcinogenesis , we generated transgenic mice expressing mutant CK1delta under the control of the whey acidic protein ( WAP ) gene promoter , and crossed them with SV40 transgenic WAP - T - antigen ( WAP - T ) mice .
To elucidate the biological role of the endogenous angiogenesis inhibitor thrombospondin - 2 ( TSP - 2 ) during multistep carcinogenesis , we subjected TSP - 2 - deficient and wild - type mice to a chemical skin carcinogenesis regimen .
In addition , higher apoptotic counts were associated with HRK positivity .
However , as only a fraction of cells in advanced Kaposi ' s sarcoma lesions express vGPCR , it is unclear whether this unique viral oncogene contributes to Kaposi ' s sarcoma progression .
However , the mechanism ( s ) by which ciprofloxacin elicits its biological effects on bladder cancer cells is not well documented .
Rat tissues known to express these glucose transporters were used as controls .
Cells which had been grown in medium containing 1 ng / ml TGF - beta developed colony - forming capacity in soft agar containing epidermal growth factor .
All slides were screened for the presence of LVI .
They do not compete with 125I EGF for binding on the EGF receptors of the membrane of A431 cells .
CONCLUSION : Endostatin gene therapy mediated by adenoviral vector efficiently induces expression of endostatin in vivo , and inhibits the growth and metastasis of tumor .
Pretreatment IL levels were not associated with outcome .
Tunicamycin - treatment resulted in 75 - 90 % inhibition in [ 3H ] mannose incorporation but only 20 - 25 % inhibition in [ 3H ] thymidine and [ 3H ] leucine incorporation .
c - erb B2 overexpression decreases the benefit of adjuvant tamoxifen in early - stage breast cancer without axillary lymph node metastases .
Under these conditions , 2 - DG drastically enhanced the radiation - induced cell death of spheroids ( by 2 - 3 folds ) ; while a 40 % increase was observed in monolayer cells .
Furthermore , retention of CDK4 in these TA - like pituitary cells synergizes with loss of p27 ( Kip1 ) to induce pituitary adenocarcinomas .
These findings suggest that c - Myc and / or HIF - 1alpha activities are both involved in the regulation of glycolysis in breast cancers .
Hereditary paraganglioma / pheochromocytoma and inherited succinate dehydrogenase deficiency .
Myb ' s ability to regulate c - myc ' s expression was also demonstrated in these cells , showing a mechanism through which the proto - oncogene c - myb can exert its oncogenic potential in myeloid lineage hematopoietic cells .
The alternative splicing of Brn - 3a mRNA produces two molecular forms : a longer , Bcl - 2 transactivating form , and a shorter inactive form , lacking 84 AA in the aminoterminus .
IL - 17F ablation decreased IL - 1beta and Cox - 2 expression as well as IL - 17 receptor C ( IL - 17RC ) expression , which were increased in tumors from Apc ( Min / + ) mice .
Substantial studies have demonstrated that PTEN can inhibit cell proliferation , migration and invasion of many cancer cells .
Mechanistically , it reduced expression of molecular markers of cell proliferation ( Ki67 ) and angiogenesis ( factor VIII ) , antiapoptotic factor Bcl - 2 , cell - cycle progression regulator cyclin D1 , and survival factor AKT1 .
However , MKN - 28 , MKN - 45 , MKN - 74 , and SNU16 cells did not express membrane CXCR4 .
Also , rk - 2 diminished the expression of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 in the mouse lung which induces tumor metastasis and angiogenesis .
SD rats underwent MI received intramyocardial injection of MSCs from young donor rats ( n = 8 ) , old donor rats ( n = 8 ) , respectively .
We examined these cell lines and samples from breast cancer by RT - PCR for the expressions of OPG and RANKL mRNA .
Protein expression was statistically compared to the degree of immune cell infiltration and microvessel density in epithelial - derived ovarian tumors and a significant correlation was observed for both .
After seizures , blood - brain barrier breakdown and inflammation is also observed in brain , albeit on a lower scale than that observed after stroke .
GDP and AGE receptors : mechanisms of peritoneal damage .
When plated in 2 % serum on dishes precoated with reconstituted basement membrane ( Matrigel ) , HUVECs infected with AdCMV . VEGF165 ( 20 pfu per cell ) differentiated into capillary - like structures .
DPD expression did not significantly correlate with the occurrence of lymph node metastasis , nor was it different between primary oral cancer cells and cervical metastases .
Interestingly , FRTL - 5 - RhoA QL cells express less Tg and TTF - 1 than wild - type FRTL - 5 ( FRTL - 5 - vector ) or FRTL - 5 - RhoA N19 , suggesting a loss at the differentiation stage .
In pre - B acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ) with t ( 1 ; 19 ) translocation , a fusion protein is created between E2A and a homeobox gene PBX .
No significant association was also observed between nm23 - H1 gene product expression in lymph nodes and the patients survival .
We previously reported that a single dose of ethanol ( 1 . 4 g / kg ) , yielding a blood alcohol concentration of 100 mg / dl , significantly impairs angiogenesis in murine wounds , despite adequate levels of VEGF , suggesting direct effects of ethanol on endothelial cell signaling ( 40 ) .
Cytotoxic concentrations of cisplatin , etoposide , doxorubicin or peplomycin ( tentatively termed as Group I compounds ) , but not methotrexate and 5 - FU ( tentatively termed as Group II compounds ) , enhanced the cytotoxic activity of NaF .
CONCLUSIONS : Our promising results on the potential antitumor effects of hPNAS - 4 on ovarian cancer in vitro and in vivo may be explained , in part , by the induction of apoptosis and inhibition of angiogenesis .
In addition , PTEN promoter methylation appeared more frequently in multiple CCMs , including familial cases ( 46 . 7 % ) , than that in single - lesioned CCMs ( 11 . 8 % ; P < 0 . 05 ) .
The results were analysed using quantitative immunohistochemical analysis .
Patients with other genetic blistering disorders do not have elevated collagenase or an increased risk of squamous cell carcinoma , despite chronic wounding .
METHODS : Sixty - two patients ( 62 eyes ) with PM underwent PDT according to the guidelines of the Verteporfin in Photodynamic Therapy Study .
Infection of human or murine cells with murine leukemia viruses rapidly increases the expression of a number of genes that belong to the immunoglobulin superfamily and are involved in T - lymphocyte activation , including the class I major histocompatibility complex antigens .
In nonischemic hind limb tissues , allogeneic FM - MSC and BM - MSC injection were associated with a comparatively small amount of T lymphocyte infiltration , compared with the injection of allogeneic splenic lymphocytes .
The result showed that the mechanism of the FPC antineoplastic effect had an intimate relation with its induction to apoptosis and that the result of FPC inducing tumor cell apoptosis had the character of P53 independence .
Intriguingly , metabolic stress triggers primarily an adaptive ( rather than pro - apoptotic ) p53 response , and p53 is emerging as an important regulator of metabolic homeostasis .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : The paraffin sections from 49 subjects with OSCC were subjected to immunohistochemical studies to measure the highest MVD ( h - MVD ) and cytoplasmic immunoreactivity of VEGF .
No significant association between p53 and VEGF expressions and poor prognosis was found .
c - erbB2 was overexpressed in 43 of 145 patients ( 29 . 7 % ) , which directly correlated with tumor size and inversely with estrogen receptor ( ER ) level .
The authors report on a case series of 13 patients with recurrent heavily pretreated malignant glioma that was treated with the combination of bevacizumab and irinotecan .
Inhibition of angiogenesis has been shown to be an effective strategy in cancer therapy in mice .
Ectopic expression of Cdc25a prevented UV - induced S - phase arrest in keratinocytes lacking Erbb2 activity , demonstrating that maintenance of Cdc25a by Erbb2 suppresses cell cycle arrest .
Ultimately , the primary site was established on clinical and radiographic grounds in 71 cases ( 95 % ) .
Cell death induced by survivin targeting exhibited the hallmarks of mitochondrial - dependent apoptosis with release of cytochrome c and loss of mitochondrial transmembrane potential and was suppressed in Apaf - 1 or caspase - 9 knockout mouse embryonic fibroblasts .
Although tumor cells can exploit cytokine signaling to promote growth , invasion , and metastasis , the response of normal and premalignant epithelial cells to cytokines present in a developing tumor microenvironment remains unclear .
VM is critical for a tumor blood supply and is asscociated with aggressive features and metastasis .
Verteporfin has a high affinity for choroidal neovascular membranes , typically found with exudative AMD , and upon photoactivation results in targeted microvascular damage and thrombus formation with resultant vessel occlusion .
We did a blind prospective study in gastric cancer to assess the significance of isolated tumor cells ( ITC ) and to test the hypothesis that vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 1 ( VEGFR - 1 ) is expressed within the bone marrow at tumor - specific , premetastatic sites .
The structural and functional development of the pulmonary system is dependent upon appropriate early vascularization of the embryonic lung .
The B ( 1 ) R distribution pattern mirrored that of HER2 except that B ( 1 ) R was additionally observed in the adenomas .
TS and DPD proteins were overexpressed in primary OSCC compared to that in normal mucosa .
Neoplastic transformation of ciliary body epithelium is associated with loss of opticin expression .
These mutations may have functional consequences since they eliminate potential phosphorylation sites and may affect the tertiary structure of mature protein complexes .
We have previously mapped phosphorylation sites near the carboxy terminus of the E1B - 55kDa protein at Ser - 490 and Ser - 491 , which lie within casein kinase II consensus sequences .
Anti - transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - beta antibodies inhibit breast cancer cell tumorigenicity and increase mouse spleen natural killer cell activity .
In ILP , reduced tumour growth was observed when L - NAME was used alone .
However , the cellular functions of VASP are not known .
In contrast , multicellular spheroids mimic heterogeneous cellular behavior and the consequent functional characteristics of in vivo solid tumors , and serve as important in vitro model to investigate tumor biology and responses to potential therapeutic agents .
Thus , our results indicate that under appropriate conditions rho genes function as oncogenes and may have a role in the regulation of proliferation in fibroblast cells .
Furthermore , LDH5 correlates positively with the prognostic marker TKTL1 .
When used appropriately , and with adequate patient education regarding photosensitivity , the risk - benefit of verteporfin for the medical treatment of neovascular AMD is favourable .
This was attributed to high entrapment of lipoplexes in the extended lung vascular tree .
Thus , our data show that allergic respiratory inflammation may represent a risk factor for the development of lung metastases and suggest that amelioration of the pulmonary inflammation associated with asthma will have a direct and immediate benefit to the 7 % to 8 % of breast cancer patients with this lung disease .
The study population comprised 23 patients with histopathologically proven primary brain tumours ; 14 had high - grade gliomas , and nine low - grade brain neoplasms .
[ mRNA expression of metastasis - suppressor gene nm23 in carcinoma of buccal mucosa . II . Quantitative reverse transcription PCR amplification ] .
p53 appears to be a nuclear transcription factor that plays a role in the control of cell proliferation , apoptosis , and the maintenance of genetic stability .
Trib1 and Evi1 were up - regulated due to retroviral insertions , and coexpression of these genes significantly accelerated the onset of Hoxa9 / Meis1 - induced AML , suggesting that Trib1 and Evi1 are the key collaborators .
BACKGROUND : Survivin is a novel inhibitor of apoptosis commonly detected in tissues during fetal development and in cancer , but not usually in normal tissues .
Concomitant inhibition of autophagy may be an attractive strategy for unlocking the antitumor potential of sorafenib in HCC .
Four patients received bevacizumab at a dose of 10 mg / m2 ; irinotecan was given at a dose of 125 mg / m2 every week for 3 weeks .
In all of these assays , equivalent treatments with a mixture of the HAH plus cortisol was significantly less effective .
Since congenital neutropenia and SDS are inherited forms of bone marrow failure , G - CSF may accelerate the propensity for MDS / AML in the genetically altered stem and progenitor cells , especially in those with G - CSF receptor and ras mutations ( 82 % and 50 % of patients who transform , respectively ) .
Aquaporins in human breast cancer : identification and involvement in carcinogenesis of breast cancer .
Genotypes of 155 patients with cervical cancer and 160 healthy control subjects were determined using polymerase chain reaction - based restriction fragment length polymorphism ( PCR - RFLP ) .
[ Autologous bone marrow stem cell or peripheral blood endothelial progenitor cell therapy in patients with peripheral limb ischaemia ]
Glucose deprivation - mediated sensitization to apoptosis was prevented in MCF - 7 cells overexpressing BCL - 2 .
Proc .
2 - methoxyestradiol inhibits hypoxia - inducible factor 1alpha , tumor growth , and angiogenesis and augments paclitaxel efficacy in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
This chapter provides a new intravital microscopic method for detecting and measuring NO - dependent angiogenesis in a mouse model .
These results suggest a role for HS chains of perlecan in improving graft patency by selectively promoting endothelial cell proliferation while modulating platelet adhesion .
Some human cancer cells have been found to overexpress eph mRNAs without gene amplification .
However , the process of tumor blood vessel formation is complex , and each tumor exhibits unique features in its vasculature .
We determined whether growth state can influence the action of protein kinase C by measuring protein kinase C activity in growing and stationary cultures of normal and transformed cells .
Together , our findings demonstrate a novel role of TSP - 1 to inhibit tumor - stroma reaction that could be attributed to the blockage of activated fibroblasts from invading cancer cells .
Furthermore , the formation of complexes containing KDR and NRP1 markedly increased 125I - VEGF165 binding to KDR .
In contrast , NIH 3T3 cells are non - tumorigenic but are ras - responsive and become metastatic when transfected with ras .
Surprisingly , when injected into chicken embryos in the presence of helper virus , both viruses induced an erythroleukemia in about half of the animals .
Close surveillance for arterial and venous thrombotic events is recommended .
Glucocorticoid receptor ( GR ) activation has recently been shown to inhibit apoptosis in breast epithelial cells .
bFGF loaded PLGA - HP microspheres showed sustained release profiles of bFGF in vitro , demonstrating reversible and specific binding of bFGF to immobilized heparin .
Most Group I compounds except doxorubicin ( which induced DNA fragmentation less effectively than others ) activated caspase 3 more efficiently than Group II compounds .
Immunohistochemical staining of the tumors demonstrated a decreased number of blood vessels in the treatment group versus the controls .
The latent membrane protein LMP1 of Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) is often present in EBV - associated malignancies including nasopharyngeal carcinoma and Hodgkin ' s lymphoma .
What was observed , however , was the multistep acquisition of aberrant cellular genetic changes in marrow cells from patients who transformed , including activating ras oncogene mutations , clonal cytogenetic abnormalities , and G - CSF receptor mutations .
The Hedgehog intercellular signaling pathway regulates cell proliferation and differentiation .
1B3 binds to PDGFRbeta with high affinity ( 9x10 ( - 11 ) M ) and blocks PDGF - BB from binding to the receptor with an IC ( 50 ) of approximately 1 . 2 nM .
It was correlated with the laboratory ( Hb , WBC and platelet counts , and the percentage of blasts ) and clinical parameters ( organomegaly , duration of CP , AP , and BC ) of disease progression .
VEGF is a potent activator of angiogenesis as it promotes endothelial cell proliferation and new blood vessel formation .
Due to the importance of this pathway , it is clear that p53 disruptions may relate directly to a patient ' s prognosis .
The increased migration and invasion resulted from up - regulation of expression and activities of MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 .
Small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors offer the potential to inhibit more than one kinase and impede tumor growth by multiple mechanisms .
Caspase - 3 is essential for procaspase - 9 processing and cisplatin - induced apoptosis of MCF - 7 breast cancer cells .
Appearance of tumorous phenotypes in goldfish erythrophores transfected with ras , src , and myc oncogenes and spontaneous differentiation of the transformants in vitro .
Expression of AQP5 was associated with cellular differentiation , lymph node invasion , and clinicopathological staging .
Grossly , these tumors were small and had few feeding vessels .
It has been suggested that the immortalized phenotype is mediated by an extra cellular factor .
We undertook this study to test the hypothesis that Fas - FasL - mediated apoptosis plays a role in IL - 12 - induced tumor regression .
Additionally , impaired placental angiogenesis and uteroplacental blood flow appears to be an early defect in both the hyperthermic and adolescent paradigms .
PCNSLs with HRK methylation also showed methylation of multiple genes , such as p14ARF , p16INK4a , RB1 , p27Kip1 and O6 - MGMT .
We studied the expression of CXCR4 using RT - PCR , Western blotting , flow cytometry , and confocal microscopy in five gastric cancer cell lines .
We further show that in extracts from caspase - 3 - deficient MCF - 7 cells , procaspase - 9 processing is strongly impaired after stimulation with either cytochrome c or recombinant caspase - 8 .
In order to understand the underlying mechanism by which TSC phenolic fraction potentiates BPDE - induced tumorigenicity , we examined its effect on the activation of two transcription factors AP - 1 and NF - kappaB which are known to be influenced by established tumor promoter TPA .
CONCLUSIONS : Despite a small sample size and limited length of follow - up , this study shows that visual acuity on average can remain stable for at least 12 months after PDT of juxtafoveal lesions .
BACKGROUND : Bone morphogenetic proteins ( BMPs ) exert osteoinductive effects in prostate cancer ( PC ) via uncharacterized mechanisms .
The concentrations of urine IL - 8 / Cr were significantly higher in patients than in controls ( 48 . 9 + / - 194 . 4 vs . 5 . 2 + / - 13 . 8 pg / mg Cr , P less than 0 . 001 ) .
Solid tumors must establish a blood supply in order to proliferate and grow .
Among a myriad of biological activities described for xanthone derivatives , the anticancer activity is quite remarkable , but the molecular mechanism is not clearly resolved .
Collectively , hypoxia conditioning induced tumor cell migration by TB4 expression - dependent HIF - 1alpha stabilization .
Furthermore , overexpression of TLX in Ink4a / Arf ( - / - ) astrocytes inhibited cell migration and invasion and promoted neurosphere formation and Nestin expression , which are hallmark characteristics of glioma stem cells , under stem cell culture conditions .
These results indicate that ING4 has an important role in brain tumour pathogenesis .
The microvessel density ( MVD ) ) decreased from 42 . 4 + / - 4 . 8 to 10 . 5 + / - 3 . 2 per x 200 magnificetion microscopic field by CD10 staining and from 68 . 5 + / - 4 . 5 to 37 . 5 + / - 4 . 6 by CD31 staining , respectively ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
Here , we established lymph node metastasis models by injecting overexpressing VEGF - D Lewis lung carcinoma cells into C57BL / 6 mice to explore the effect of honokiol on tumor - associated lymphangiogenesis and related lymph node metastasis .
To assay for the possible presence of transforming genes which were not active in a focus formation assay , two of the epithelial lines were analysed further by co - transfection with a dominant selectable marker , followed by selection and inoculation into nude mice .
These data indicate that artemisinin may be useful for the prevention of lymph node metastasis by downregulating VEGF - C and reducing tumor lymphangiogenesis .
As a result of paracrine signal transmission , the effects of Hedgehog signaling most profoundly influence the stromal cells that constitute the tumor microenvironment .
At the cellular level , the result is hypoxia which impairs wound healing .
The transcription factor NF - kappaB and associated regulatory factors ( including IkappaB kinase subunits and the IkappaB family member Bcl - 3 ) are strongly implicated in a variety of hematologic and solid tumor malignancies .
No clinicopathologic factors were significantly correlated with p53 or VEGF expression .
Neoplastic transformation by Notch requires nuclear localization .
RESULTS : Twenty - one eyes had juxtafoveal CNV .
Following intravenous administration of cationic lipid - DNA complexes ( lipoplexes ) into mice , transfection ( lipofection ) occurs predominantly in the lungs .
Collectively , our results suggest that the loss of SEMA3 expression could be a hallmark of cancer progression .
Suppression and re - expression of transformed phenotype in hybrids of HA - ras - 1 - transformed rat - 1 cells and early - passage rat embryonic fibroblasts .
The formation of new blood vessels through the process of angiogenesis is critical in vascular development and homeostasis .
Endosialin / TEM 1 / CD248 is a pericyte marker of embryonic and tumor neovascularization .
Emodin also induced differentiation of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells by exhibiting a morphological maturation property of large lacy nuclei surrounded by sizable flat cytoplasm and by showing a measurable production of large lipid droplets , which is a marker of mature breast cells .
In the present study , we developed the first specific inhibitors of the pyruvate kinase isoenzyme type M2 and present evidence that these inhibitors moderately decelerate tumor cell proliferation .
New Zealand white rabbits were given limbal inoculations of a heat - killed suspension of herpes simplex virus ( HSV ) in a lysate of human embryonic kidney cells .
These include activated macrophages , sensitized lymphocytes , and adipocytes .
Recruited pericytes were desmin and NG2 positive and predominately alpha - smooth muscle actin negative , indicative of a more mature pericyte phenotype .
The co - injection of anti - Le ( x ) / Le ( a ) or anti - beta ( 1 ) - integrin antibodies produced a marked reduction in the size of A431 tumors , which were not vascularized and accompanied an independent tiny remnant clump of F - 2 cells .
Like in Apc ( Delta716 ) mice , loss of the wild - type Apc allele was confirmed for all polyps examined in the Apc ( neoR ) and Apc ( neoF ) mice .
Here , we demonstrate that HIF - 2alpha protein is selectively present in human fetal week 8 . 5 SNS paraganglia .
Inhibition of the mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) by rapamycin increases chemosensitivity of CaSki cells to paclitaxel .
Here we produced a neutralizing antibody , 1B3 , directed against mouse PDGFRbeta .
LRP - 1 also is implicated in integrin maturation .
The COX - 2 protein was not detected in the three borderline tumours , whereas PPARgamma protein was detected in all of them .
These studies have led to a hypothesis that the supplemental intake of these vitamins may reduce the risk of cancer .
On the other hand , hypermethylation of CpG islands in the final sigma gene was detected in 91 % ( 75 / 82 ) of breast tumors and was associated with lack of gene expression .
The lead oxide group revealed extensive growth of blood vessels from the latissimus graft into the experimental fat pad .
In a complex organism , somatic cells are under intermittent selection pressure for the emergence of mutants that can survive environmental insults and that can grow autonomously despite adverse conditions .
Allogeneic injection of fetal membrane - derived mesenchymal stem cells induces therapeutic angiogenesis in a rat model of hind limb ischemia .
The excessive production of ROS can damage protein , lipids , nucleic acids , and matrix components .
CONCLUSIONS : We reported here for the first time the involvement of PTEN promoter methylation in CCMs , particularly in familial CCMs , suggesting this epigenetic alteration as a potential pathomechanism of CCMs .
The amplification and overexpression of the HER - 2 / neu proto - oncogene , which encodes the tyrosine kinase receptor p185neu , have been observed frequently in tumors from human breast cancer patients and are correlated with poor prognosis .
AKT2 is a downstream target of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 ( Grm1 ) .
UV - B - induced IL - 8 was constitutively expressed 60 days after irradiation in tumors implanted in mice .
Finally , Bcl - 2 is significantly increased in the neuroblastoma cells cultured in the conditioned media .
Human pituitary tumor transforming gene ( PTTG ) overexpression correlates with metastasis in multiple tumors , and yet its molecular mechanisms of action remain elusive .
Strong positive expression of mEndostatin was seen in the tumor tissue after injection of Ad - mEndostatin , immunhistochemically ostained by mouse endostatin monoclonal antibody , while the control groups showed only very low expression or absence .
STUDY DESIGN : Thirty - three archival cytologic specimens from eight patients with histologically confirmed malignant mesothelioma and 13 from patients with metastatic serous effusions were destained and then immunostained with anticalretinin antiserum .
Recent studies revealed that p21WAF1 protects cells from apoptosis by arresting them in G1 and further binds to pro - caspase - 3 , preventing its activation and thus , inhibiting the apoptotic cascade .
The molecular basis of this behaviour could be related to different locations for the lactate dehydrogenase isoenzymes , as suggested by their immunohistochemical labelling .
This protein has been shown to be a protein kinase that phosphorylates on tyrosine residues .
This was accompanied by increased phosphorylation of the VEGF receptor 2 .
Activation of AP - 1 in skin was detected as early as 2 weeks following Cum - OOH or TPA exposure .
Patients with high PLD ( > 8 . 0 ) showed higher rates of neck metastases than low PLD ( < = 8 . 0 ) ( 74 . 0 % vs 46 . 8 % , p = . 03 ) .
Hence , GM - CSF and IL - 3 enhance the intracellular metabolism of ara - C and its incorporation into the DNA of leukemic cells leading to a higher antileukemic activity of ara - C on clonogenic leukemic cells ( CFU - L ) .
The MVD and Ki - 67 LI were higher , and the AI was lower in the SCC with VEGF / p53 coexpression than in those without the coexpression .
These proliferative effects were accompanied by increased VEGF expression and release that were observed as early as 4 h after 20 - HETE agonist addition .
Hence , regulatory mechanisms of IL - 8 need to be investigated in whole tissue .
Biomaterials such as Surgisis ( Cook Biotech Incorporated , West Lafayette , IN , USA ) , which are derived from natural ECM , provide the extracellular components necessary to direct the healing response , allow for the proliferation of new , healthy tissue and restore tissue integrity to the damaged site .
Although some recent reports suggest that microvessel counts in non - small cell lung cancer are related to a poor disease outcome , the results were not conclusive and were not compared with other molecular prognostic markers .
MDA - MB - 231 cells alone or breast cancer samples did not express RANKL mRNA .
We further support this hypothesis by providing the first evidence that TnI can act on nonendothelial as well as endothelial cells and by demonstrating that this inhibitory action is specific for the bFGF receptor on the target cells .
Expression of wild - type VASP induces marked membrane ruffling and formation of prominent stress fibers in bovine aortic endothelial cells .
Inhibition by N - ( phosphonacetyl ) - L - aspartate of Ehrlich ascites tumour growth and glucose transport .
In addition , this study mechanistically implicates IRSp53 in the signaling nexus between activated Cdc42 and Mena , both of which have previously been shown to be involved with Robo4 signaling in endothelial cells .
CONCLUSIONS : These results suggest that CD40 expression on lung cancer may play a role in metastatic spread , and also may serve as a prognostic marker and an indicator of advanced disease .
CONCLUSIONS : This study provides evidence that EPOX induces glutathione depletion , ERK inactivation , and Mcl - 1 degradation on endothelial cells , which leads to inhibition of angiogenesis .
OBJECTIVE : p53 plays a role in tumor angiogenesis , and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) plays a key role in tumor angiogenesis .
No [ 13C ] glucose utilization was detected in H4 spheroids , but uptake of alanine and accumulation of labeled lactate , glutamate and glutamine indicated oxidation via the tricarboxylic acid ( TCA ) cycle .
Thymosin beta - 4 ( TB4 ) is an actin - sequestering protein to control cytoskeletal reorganization .
A pivotal role for p53 : balancing aerobic respiration and glycolysis .
Further deletions reveal a sequence within the carboxy - terminal domain that is responsible for in vivo bundle formation .
In all cases , there was complete concordance between the effects of hypoxia and AdCA5 .
Furthermore , slow release administration by subcutaneous injection using an Alzet osmotic pump of a potent and bio - stable T140 analog , 4F - benzoyl - TN14003 , gave a partial , but statistically significant ( P < / = 0 . 05 ( t - test ) ) reduction in pulmonary metastasis of MDA - MB - 231 in SCID mice , even though no attempt was made to inhibit other important targets such as CCR7 .
With the recent ability to clone capillary endothelial cells and to carry them in long - term culture , it has been possible to further delineate the mechanism of capillary growth .
IL - 17F deficient Apc ( Min / + ) mice showed a significant decrease in immune cell infiltration in the lamina propria .
Phosphorylation of Thr654 by protein kinase C decreases high affinity EGF binding and EGF - stimulated tyrosine protein kinase activity , providing a mechanism for heterologous regulation of the EGF receptor by tumor promoters and other ligand X receptor complexes .
In DU - 145 cells apoptosis was increased by lower TRAIL concentrations and was earlier than in PC - 3 cells , as shown using Annexin V - binding assay .
TEL is a member of the ETS family of transcription factors that interacts with the mSin3 and SMRT corepressors to regulate transcription .
Under conditions mimicking the injection environment , the lipoplex - serum interaction was strongly dependent on helper lipid and ionic strength : lipoplexes prepared in 150 mM NaCl or lipoplexes with high ( greater than 33 mol % ) cholesterol were found to aggregate immediately .
In contrast , pellets from the CLA - fed animals contained fewer infiltrating cells , which formed limited branching cellular networks , the majority of which had collapsed lumen and no RBCs .
The present study aimed to investigate whether PTEN promoter methylation was involved in CCMs .
The capacity of insulin to stimulate the VEGF promoter linked to a luciferase reporter gene was characterized in transient transfection assays .
These results suggest that apoptosis caused by elevated expression of Fas is involved in chemoprevention by lactoferrin of colon carcinogenesis .
Importantly , we show that mouse p10 is able to induce cell cycle arrest in a p53 - dependent manner .
From mechanisms to therapy and prevention .
The results showed that the expression of full - length T antigen rendered rat embryo fibroblasts ( REF ) sensitive to 5 - FU - induced apoptosis .
Identification of Dss1 as a 12 - O - tetradecanoylphorbol - 13 - acetate - responsive gene expressed in keratinocyte progenitor cells , with possible involvement in early skin tumorigenesis .
P18 increased the production of CD95 ligand and reduced the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 by the endothelial cells in vivo .
Hck - mediated cellular transformation of murine fibroblasts is reverted by ectopic expression of a membrane - anchored allele of Cbl as assessed by the cellular morphology , suppression of anchorage independent growth , and an overall reduction in the total tyrosine phosphorylation levels within the cells .
The data provide an example of coordinated changes in the expression of two cell adhesion molecules , syndecan - 1 and E - cadherin during epithelial cell transformation .
It is the driving force for tumor development as it facilitates the accumulation of mutations in genes that regulate cell death and proliferation and therefore promotes malignant transformation .
In the trans - splenic hepatic metastasis model using nude mice , the augmentation of cancer metastasis was observed by the treatment of carcinostatic agents .
[ Expression of Merlin protein in non - small cell lung carcinoma and the clinical significance ] .
IGF - 1 mRNA ( n = 10 / group ) and protein levels ( n = 6 / group ) were higher ( P less than 0 . 05 for all groups ) at 3 , 7 , and 14 days compared with controls .
We previously showed in colorectal cancer that sVAP - 1 expression is significantly higher relative to controls , and this decreased expression is associated with poor prognosis and lymph node and liver metastasis .
Whereas the ligands were increased in stages III and IV , the receptors were upregulated in stage III only .
Fas - signaling and effects on receptor tyrosine kinase signal transduction in human breast epithelial cells .
RESULTS : In this article , we report the effects of altering RASSF1C expression in human breast cancer cells .
Adenomatoid tumour of the liver .
Endothelialisation and platelet adhesion to purified endothelial cell - derived perlecan , the major heparan sulfate ( HS ) proteoglycan in basement membranes , were investigated using in vivo and in vitro assays .
COX - 2 protein was detected in eight of the 12 carcinomas , whereas PPARgamma protein was detected in only two cases .
PTEN promoter hypermethylation is a major epigenetic silencing mechanism leading to activation of angiogenesis in tumors .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : Forty - two MRI exams were performed with intravascular contrast media in 21 rats : tumours were induced by subcutaneous injection of colon carcinoma cells in 7 rats and mammary adenocarcinoma cells in 14 rats .
A tumor ' s ability to successfully metastasize may be dependent on mediators generated in the tumor - host interaction , and may not be just an independent characteristic of the tumor itself .
In the 380 patients who were ITC negative and showed low VEGFR - 1 expression , synchronous ( at the time of surgery ) and heterochronous ( recurrent ) metastases were not observed .
9E3 / CEF4 was slightly mitogenic for CEF , causing a doubling of [ 3H ] thymidine uptake when added to serum - starved CEF . 9E3 / CEF4 was found associated not only with the cell and in the culture medium of Rous sarcoma virus - transformed CEF but also with the extracellular matrix .
Prior to this cellular outcome , FOXO3a is functionally activated and mediates a large - scale transcription program in response to this damage involving a significant modulation of 440 genes .
As a result , GSE could inhibit VEGF - induced endothelial cell proliferation and migration as well as sprout formation from aorta ring .
Despite intensive investigations , the target genes of c - myb that are specifically involved in development of these myeloid lineage neoplasms are still unknown .
Consequently , we examined by immunohistochemistry , using the avidin - biotin - peroxidase method , Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 expression in 56 samples of primary oral squamous cell carcinoma and in 22 matched pairs of primary and metastatic tumors .
The present study demonstrates that Tie1 expression is rapidly down - regulated in endothelial cells exposed to shear stress , and more so to shear stress changes .
TGFbeta1 , back to the future : revisiting its role as a transforming growth factor .
CONCLUSIONS : VEGF - A ( 165 ) is one of the major angiogenesis regulators among the ligands ' family of VEGF , whereas its receptors KDR , and most probably Flt - 1 , may contribute to a poor prognosis ( angiogenic ) phenotype , as indicated by their upregulated MRNA levels in stage III neuroblastoma .
Germline succinate dehydrogenase subunit A ( SDHA ) mutations have been reported in a few patients with a classical mitochondrial neurodegenerative disease .
M - CSF signals through the MAPK / ERK pathway via Sp1 to induce VEGF production and induces angiogenesis in vivo .
VPF / VEGF induced dermal microvascular EC expression of mRNAs encoding the alphav and beta3 integrin subunits resulting in increased levels of the alphavbeta3 heterodimer at the cell surface , and VPF / VEGF also induced mRNA encoding osteopontin ( OPN ) , an alphavbeta3 ligand .
Treatment of K562 cells with tunicamycin for 18 h , resulted in extensive loss of the 50 - 60 kDa glycoprotein , appearance of a 30 - 40 kDa band and increased staining of a 45 kDa band .
CONCLUSION : BRAF p . Val600Lys mutations were present at a relatively high frequency in this cohort of metastatic melanoma patients ( 27 / 183 , 15 % ) .
The diagnosis reached was retinochoroiditis as an occult manifestation of sarcoidosis , possibly resulting from an intravitreal injection of bevacizumab .
The integration of vascular grading in clinical trials on adjuvant chemotherapy and / or radiotherapy could substantially contribute in defining groups of operable patients who might benefit from cytotoxic treatment .
