The 5 - year survival rate in cases with higher KISS1 protein expression was significantly higher than in those with low expression ( 20 . 9 vs . 2 . 4 % , p < 0 . 01 ) .
DNA microarray analysis allows for analysis of drug effects on multiple pathways linked to cancer and can suggest corresponding imaging tracers for further analysis as biomarkers of tumor response .
BMSVTs immortalized with hTERT formed large colonies in vitro and small transient tumours in vivo .
RESULTS : VEGF expression was observed in 58 . 3 % , and p53 protein expression was observed in 61 . 7 % of the 60 patients .
Truncated galectin - 3 inhibits tumor growth and metastasis in orthotopic nude mouse model of human breast cancer .
Interference with Dll4 - Notch signaling may be particularly desirable in tumors that have highly induced Dll4 - Notch pathway .
Thus , CECs , EPCs and EMPs may represent potentially novel methods for evaluating the vascular status of cancer patients .
On the basis of earlier findings that ERK5 deficiency in mouse EC results in massive defects in vessel architecture , we focused on the impact of the MEK5 / ERK5 signaling pathway on EC migration .
Taken together , these results show for the first time that active RhoA is able to transform FRTL - 5 cells and that this effect is coupled to a loss of thyroid differentiation due to impaired TTF - 1 activity .
Prognostic value of angiogenesis in operable non - small cell lung cancer .
Reconstitution of MCF - 7 cells by stable transfection of CASP - 3 cDNA restores all these defects and results in an extensive apoptosis after cisplatin treatment .
Statistical analysis revealed a significantly inverse correlation between AI and IMVD ( r = - 0 . 53 , P less than 0 . 01 ) .
The genetics of transformation by SV 40 .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : An Affymetrix expression microarray was used to compare gene expression profiles between six pairs of TFs and normal fibroblasts from esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( ESCC ) .
A marginally significant association was also noted between the h - MVD and patient survival ( P = . 056 ) .
KISS1 methylation and expression as tumor stratification biomarkers and clinical outcome prognosticators for bladder cancer patients .
This suggested that CLA might inhibit angiogenesis in vivo .
2ME2 resulted in decreased nuclear HIF - 1alpha - binding activity and affected the expression of downstream genes , such as bid , a proapoptotic bcl - 2 family member , and vascular endothelial growth factor , a proangiogenic cytokine .
The principal types of tumors were plasmacytomas secreting immunoglobulin and novel lymphomas that expressed markers such as Sca - 1 , CD4 , Thy - 1 , CD34 and CD45 ( B220 ) , consistent with an origin very early in B - lymphoid development .
Several Notch genes have clearly been shown to be proto - oncogenes in mammalian cells .
Clinical implication of expression of cyclooxygenase - 2 and peroxisome proliferator activated - receptor gamma in epithelial ovarian tumours .
Oxygen metabolism has an important role in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis .
TF is involved in cell migration , embryogenesis and angiogenesis .
To investigate the dose - dependent effects of APC protein in suppressing intestinal tumorigenesis , we constructed mutant mice carrying hypomorphic Apc alleles Apc ( neoR ) and Apc ( neoF ) whose expression levels were reduced to 20 % and 10 % of the wild type , respectively .
This study examines the mechanism of HKa and D5 inhibition of two potent stimulators of endothelial cell migration , sphingosine 1 - phosphate ( S1P ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , that act through the P13 - kinase - Akt signaling pathway .
Then , we examined the role of two major downstream molecules of Crk , Rac1 and Rap1 .
The results were analysed using quantitative immunohistochemical analysis .
Electrophoretic mobility shift assays showed that the oligonucleotides containing the WT1 motifs could bind recombinant WT1 proteins .
Thrombin decreases the ability of endothelial cells to attach to basement membrane proteins .
Changes in c - FLIP ( L ) and cFLIPs levels were observed in some but not all the cell lines studied following glucose deprivation .
However , no published data are available concerning the biological and clinical significance of COUP - TFII expression in colorectal cancer .
Tumour angiogenesis : its mechanism and therapeutic implications in malignant gliomas .
Endothelial cells grown at normal pH suffer no ill effects from this angiostatin - mediated inhibition of ATP synthase , whereas endothelial cells grown at low , tumor - like extracellular pH cannot maintain a normal intracellular pH and die .
In vivo effects of insulin on tumor and skeletal muscle glucose metabolism in patients with lymphoma .
Mild mutations in BRCA2 ( FANCD1 ) cause Fanconi anemia ( FA ) when homozygous , while severe mutations cause common cancers including breast , ovarian , and prostate cancers when heterozygous .
The level of neu expression , as well as the differential expression between P185neu and LAR / PTP1B , directly correlated with tumorigenicity .
These results suggest that , in some immortalized and transformed cells , blocking the cellular signal transduction might trigger the induction of apoptosis .
In the distraction group , a significant postoperative increase in MMP - 1 , bFGF , ALP , and BAP could be observed during the lengthening and the consolidation period when compared with the baseline levels .
The aim of this study is to compare behavior and tissue response between two new polyester prostheses and a commonly used polypropylene ( PP ) mesh .
A number of signaling cascades have been shown to play important roles in prostate cancer development and progression , including the androgen receptor ( AR ) and phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase / Akt signaling pathways .
These results suggest that overexpression of PLD isozymes may play an important role in neoplastic transformation .
Active hair growth ( anagen ) is associated with angiogenesis .
Pretreatment with DMI followed by combination of DMI and FA decreased GR - mediated transcription more than pretreatment with FA .
However , the strong increase of angiogenesis in AOGEN - transgenic mice compared with mice with normal ANG II levels suggests additional stimulatory activity .
Compared with values measured at the edge of the ear and in the contralateral ear , leukocyte adhesion was found to be diminished significantly in vessels inside the ear tumor in both mouse models .
There is a highly significant correlation between the magnitude of changes in the number of cytochalasin B binding sites and the magnitude of changes in glucose uptake .
The transformation of normal melanocytes , or melanocyte stem cells , to melanoma , is a complex process involving multiple mechanisms .
The contribution of Harold F . Dvorak to the study of tumor angiogenesis and stroma generation mechanisms .
CONCLUSION : Our results strongly support a role for PI3K / Akt / mTOR pathway in PET , which ties in with the fact that mTOR inhibitors have reached phase III trials in neuroendocrine tumors .
Furthermore , rat mammary carcinomas with elevated neu expression ( neu - induced ) also had sharply elevated LAR - PTPase expression when compared to rat mammary carcinomas with little or no neu expression ( 7 , 12 - dimethylbenzanthracene induced ) ; the level of expression of LAR PTPase was directly correlated with the level of neu expression .
Together , these in vitro and in vivo studies are consistent with the concept that Ad vectors may provide a useful strategy for efficient local delivery of VEGF165 in the treatment of ischemic diseases .
VPF / VEGF induced dermal microvascular EC expression of mRNAs encoding the alphav and beta3 integrin subunits resulting in increased levels of the alphavbeta3 heterodimer at the cell surface , and VPF / VEGF also induced mRNA encoding osteopontin ( OPN ) , an alphavbeta3 ligand .
Coffee is a leading source of methylxanthines , such as caffeine .
CONCLUSION : The present series supports the theory that opticin is produced by the non - pigmented CBE throughout adult life .
Similar translocations are found in mouse plasmacytomas and both diseases involve interchanges between one of the immunoglobulin loci and DNA in the vicinity of the myc gene .
The role of the p53 pathway in Runx2 / MYC tumors was explored on a p53 heterozygote background .
Both B and T lymphocytes diversify their antigen receptors through RAG1 / 2 mediated recombination , but B cells undergo two additional processes - - somatic hypermutation ( SHM ) and class - switch recombination ( CSR ) , both initiated by activation - induced cytidine deaminase ( AID ) .
This negative regulation is mediated by the cytoskeleton as the disruption of interactions between the PSMA cytoplasmic tail and the anchor protein filamin A decreases PSMA activity , integrin function , and PAK activation .
2 - BE is a hemolytic agent that induces hemangiosarcomas in mice .
Effect of antitumor agents on cytotoxicity induction by sodium fluoride .
Finally , genetic ablation of Brk1 results in dramatic defects in embryo compaction and development , suggesting an essential role for this protein in actin dynamics .
BACKGROUND : Bone morphogenetic proteins ( BMPs ) exert osteoinductive effects in prostate cancer ( PC ) via uncharacterized mechanisms .
p53 is a protein with many talents .
Alteration of homeobox gene expression by N - ras transformation of PA - 1 human teratocarcinoma cells .
Using GC cell lines we show that C / EBPbeta can regulate the expression of endogenous COX - 2 and transactivate the promoter of the COX - 2 gene , depending on its methylation status .
The relationship between this unique type of EBV and NPC has yet to be established .
Partial tissue oxygen tension ( PtO ( 2 ) ) was measured with polarographic microprobes ; epithelial metabolism was monitored by microdialysis inside the TET epithelium perfused with the medium underneath .
Ecotropic viral integration site - 1 ( Evi - 1 ) is a nuclear transcription factor , which is essential for the proliferation / maintenance of hematopoietic stem cells ( HSCs ) .
CONCLUSION : Selective inhibition of iNOS by L - NIL inhibits angiogenesis in a hindlimb ischemic rat model .
The expression of Merlin protein was not associated with the pathological type , gender , P - TNM stage , differentiation and lymph node metastasis ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
We also demonstrated that Evi - 1 represses Smad - induced transcriptional activation by recruiting CtBP as a corepressor .
Collagen - poly glycolic acid hybrid matrix with basic fibroblast growth factor accelerated angiogenesis and granulation tissue formation in diabetic mice .
METHODS : The parameters associated with locating and then photocoagulating CNV feeder vessels were identified and optimized using published data and data derived from modeling the choroidal vasculature .
Expression of both receptors was studied in biopsy samples from 92 patients ( 6 males and 86 females ; age ranging from 28 to 86 years , mean 56 years ) .
Western blotting of p53 and murine double mutant 2 ( Mdm2 ) together with p53 DNA sequencing analysis indicate that p53 function loss by mutation or overexpression of Mdm2 occurred in all tested oral cancer cells regardless of their etiology .
BACKGROUND : Patients with recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa ( RDEB ) have deficiencies of collagen type VII and have elevated levels of fibroblast collagenase , and a greatly increased risk of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma .
Capillary cell migration and proliferation are proposed as sensitive quantifiable bioassays to explore the functional domains of the EGF molecule .
Nucleotide sequence analysis of a 3116bp cDNA clone revealed a 2682 - bp - long open reading frame capable of directing the synthesis of a 894 amino acid polypeptide .
Combined topical fluconazole and corticosteroid treatment for experimental Candida albicans keratomycosis .
Diallyl trisulfide ( DATS ) inhibits mouse colon tumor in mouse CT - 26 cells allograft model in vivo .
The disease progressed in 8 patients , despite an initial response .
Gastric cancer metastasized when ITCs were observed in the presence of VEGFR - 1 .
Syndecans are a family of transmembrane heparan sulfate proteoglycans widely expressed in both developing and adult tissues .
The system also permits precise aiming and delivery of 810 - nm wavelength photocoagulation laser energy to target FVs on a real - time ICG angiogram image of the choroidal vasculature .
In this study , we aimed to investigate the role of aberrations in the APC and beta - catenin genes in the pathogenesis of CRC in the Kashmir valley , and to correlate it with various clinicopathological variables .
The role of each prognostic variable and their independent effect were studied using the Cox model .
Protein expression profile of primary human squamous cell lung carcinomas indicative of the incidence of metastases .
Vascular grade was not related to histology , grade , proliferation index ( Ki67 ) , or EGFR or p53 expression .
Betulin induces mitochondrial cytochrome c release associated apoptosis in human cancer cells .
Tumors are tissue - specific diseases , and their mechanisms of invasion and metastasis are highly diverse .
The function of p53 tumor suppressor is often altered in various human tumors predominantly through missense - mutations resulting in accumulation of mutant proteins .
Left ventricular weight , body weight , and their ratio were not significantly altered by alinidine treatment .
The apparent first - order rate constant for GSH decay increased progressively for L1210 cells expressing a range of GPX activities from approximately 5 % to 100 % , demonstrating that peroxide detoxification is strictly dependent on enzyme content .
The apoptosis induced by Sim is probably initiated by the mitochondrial caspase 9 , which indirectly leads to activation of caspase 3 and 8 .
Inhibitors of Akt and P13 - kinase , the upstream activator of Akt , block endothelial cell migration and disrupt paxillin localization to the focal adhesions after stimulation with VEGF and S1P .
METHODS : LOH of epigenetic microsatellites of PTEN ( D10S541 , D10S583 and D10S1687 ) in advanced gastric cancer was detected by PCR - SSCP .
Although the increase in p53 levels could be a secondary by - product of the transformed state , it is equally possible that p53 is actively involved in altering cellular growth properties , especially as it has been implicated in the regulation of normal cell proliferation .
Examination of checkpoint pathway activation upstream of Cdc25a revealed Erbb2 activation did not alter Ataxia Telangiectasia and Rad3 - related / Ataxia Telangiectasia Mutated activity but increased inhibitory phosphorylation of Chk1 - Ser ( 280 ) .
Tumor - free mice were used as controls .
Systematic proteomic studying of the mechanism of hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) metastasis remains challenging .
Immunohistochemistry scores for matrix metalloproteinase - 9 expression were significantly elevated compared to controls in scar endothelial cells and fibroblasts from 2 until 12 and 20 weeks , respectively .
Here we present PU24FCl , a representative of the first class of designed Hsp90 inhibitors .
The biological significance of this regulation of the two major pathways of energy generation by p53 remains to be seen .
CONCLUSION : c - kit protein is an important diagnostic marker of gastrointestinal stromal tumor .
Co - expression of NRP1 and ( VEGFR - 2 ) KDR on the surface of endothelial cells ( EC ) enhances VEGF165 binding to KDR and EC chemotaxis in response to VEGF165 .
The findings are discussed in relation to previous morphologic studies , reports of in vitro mast - cell - mediated tumor cytotoxicity , and the role of mast cells in angiogenesis and connective tissue proliferation .
No correlations were observed between glycolytic rates and pAkt levels .
Osteonectin is one of the major non - collagenous proteins of bone .
The amount of conjugated amine group onto the microspheres was 1 . 93 + / - 0 . 01 nmol / mg - microspheres , while the amount of heparin was 95 . 8 pmol / mg - microspheres .
METHODS : Ninety diabetic patients with chronic total occlusion in at least one major epicardial coronary artery were enrolled in the study .
Combination therapy targets both lymphocytes and macrophages , and is more effective in reducing tumor than either therapy alone .
NF - kappaB / Rel transcriptional pathway : implications in pancreatic cancer .
Furthermore , the effects of a selective NF - kappaB inhibitor , NEMO - binding domain ( NBD ) peptide , on metastasis in GSAS / N5 - engrafted mice were assessed , and engrafted tongue tumors were immunohistochemically examined .
Tumor volume and total hemoglobin in allograft mice treated with 50 mg / kg DATS were significantly smaller than that in the control group .
A total of 28 patients between 3 and 37 years of age were treated for a total of 42 courses of rofecoxib treatment .
Conditioned medium from progestin - treated breast cancer cells stimulates endothelial cell proliferation in the absence though not in the presence of antibody to TSP - 1 , indicating that TSP - 1 secreted by breast cancer cells could be pro - angiogenic .
Although implicated as a tumor suppressor , its role in sporadic cancer is uncertain .
CONCLUSION : The protein profile of metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines displayed obvious differences compared with non - metastatic liver cancer cell lines .
Analysis of associations among studied proteins revealed positive correlation between Bcl - xL and Bax in primary tumors ( P < 0 . 03 , r = 0 . 307 ) .
Verteporfin has a high affinity for choroidal neovascular membranes , typically found with exudative AMD , and upon photoactivation results in targeted microvascular damage and thrombus formation with resultant vessel occlusion .
A long - lived line , RSVT - 2 , was produced and an immortalized subclone , RSVT2 / C , was further derived under a forced crisis regimen .
Furthermore , the Matrigel plugs with AdCMV . VEGF165 demonstrated hemoglobin content fourfold higher than the plugs with AdCMV . beta gal .
RESULTS : MMP - 9 was expressed in both cell lines but the intensity of the staining was different .
Increases in VEGF could contribute to the blood - brain barrier breakdown and inflammation observed after seizures .
Moreover , expression of a dominant negative AP - 2 protein , AP - 2delta ( deleted residues 31 - 117 ) , not only repressed the ErbB - 3 promoter activity but also suppressed endogenous ErbB - 3 transcription in the ErbB - 3 overexpressing cell line MRC - 5VA .
Since the intrinsic resistance of prostate carcinoma likely reflects a low susceptibility to drug - induced apoptosis , in this study we explored the possibility of sensitizing prostate carcinoma cells to apoptosis by combination of TRAIL with camptothecins .
Tumor angiogenesis has been related to the initiation as well as progression toward more aggressive behavior of human tumors .
METHODS : An mIL - 12 expression vector driven by cytomegalovirus promoter was used to express murine IL - 12 cDNA in the RM - 9 murine prostate carcinoma cell line .
Treatment with 317615 x 2HCl alone increased the lifespan of animals bearing intraperitoneal SKOV - 3 xenografts by 1 . 9 fold compared with untreated control animals .
There was also an up - regulation of Bax , which altered the Bax : Bcl - 2 ratio , which may be responsible for mitochondrial depolarization reported to be involved prior to the induction of apoptosis .
This has led to the therapeutic concept of prophylactic thyroidectomy in affected family members with the goal of removing the thyroid before the manifestation of carcinoma .
METHODS : Corneas of 105 rabbits were infected with viable yeast cells of C . albicans ( 2 . 5 x 10 ( 5 ) ) .
Four out of seven control grafts were patent with endothelial cell lining at six months , but three were occluded and one of the four grafts was still covered with a thrombus layer .
In addition , the endostatin vector treatment completely prevented the formation of pulmonary micrometastases in Lewis lung carcinoma ( P = 0 . 0001 ) .
In this study , the expression of C / EBPbeta was analysed in a series of 90 gastric carcinomas ( GCs ) .
The angiogenic response of fat tissue is not identical to placental tissue .
Whereas the ligands were increased in stages III and IV , the receptors were upregulated in stage III only .
Brick1 is an essential regulator of actin cytoskeleton required for embryonic development and cell transformation .
A role for NF - kappaB in cancer cells appears to involve regulation of cell proliferation , control of apoptosis , promotion of angiogenesis , and stimulation of invasion / metastasis .
To test this we generated Nestin - Bmi - 1 - GFP transgenic mice .
Homeobox genes in hematopoiesis and leukemogenesis .
However , as yet , there is no genetic evidence for a role of autophagy genes in tumor suppression .
LVI is associated with axillary lymph node metastases ( ALNM ) and a long - term prognostic factor .
Immunohistochemical staining of the tumors demonstrated a decreased number of blood vessels in the treatment group versus the controls .
Meanwhile , the adhesion and invasion ability of MCF - 7 cells were sharply inhibited when treated with different concentrations of curcumin .
The patient received a prescription for 100 mg Ultralan to be taken daily for 3 days and then tapered in 3 day steps .
Preventing VEGFR1 function using antibodies or by the removal of VEGFR1 ( + ) cells from the bone marrow of wild - type mice abrogates the formation of these pre - metastatic clusters and prevents tumour metastasis , whereas reconstitution with selected Id3 ( inhibitor of differentiation 3 ) - competent VEGFR1 + cells establishes cluster formation and tumour metastasis in Id3 knockout mice .
In epithelial cells , EphA2 and E - cadherin co - localize to sites of cell - cell contact , and it has been shown that E - cadherin regulates EphA2 .
We also demonstrate direct interaction of Egr - 1 with Id - 1 promoter in vitro and in cell culture .
Endothelial cell proliferation plays a pivotal role in the process of angiogenesis .
In order to understand the underlying mechanism by which TSC phenolic fraction potentiates BPDE - induced tumorigenicity , we examined its effect on the activation of two transcription factors AP - 1 and NF - kappaB which are known to be influenced by established tumor promoter TPA .
The apoptotic molecule bax is induced in p53 - mediated apoptosis , but bax is not induced in E2F - 1 - mediated apoptosis in glioma cells .
However , the exact mechanisms of ARF action yet remain unclear and require further studies by different specialists at both the molecular genetic and other levels of investigation .
We propose that cytolytic effector and related proteins produced by putative NK and some CD8 + CD56 + postthymic T - cell lymphomas , probably in conjunction with other mechanisms , may effect massive tumor cell apoptosis .
In mice , xenografts of human glioblastoma U87MG , which has decreased expression of ING4 , grow significantly faster and have higher vascular volume fractions than control tumours .
There was a significant correlation between loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 expression and upregulation of c - myc .
Osteoclast - like cells and tartarate resistant acid phosphatase ( TRAP ) activities were then quantitated .
We found coexpression of CD40 and CD154 in most of the renal carcinoma cell lines .
The integration of vascular grading in clinical trials on adjuvant chemotherapy and / or radiotherapy could substantially contribute in defining groups of operable patients who might benefit from cytotoxic treatment .
The expression of Cbl at the plasma membrane targets both Hck and itself for ubiquitination and degradation , requiring an intact RING finger .
In vitro , insulin increased VEGF mRNA levels in human RPE cells and enhanced VEGF promoter activity without affecting transcript stability .
Both groups believe that pulp revascularization and regeneration will be viable treatment modalities in the future .
Grape seed extract ( GSE ) , a widely used dietary supplement , is known to have antitumor activity .
In summary , these novel studies identify and characterize a marked glucose - modulated activation response of the type II hexokinase gene to hypoxic conditions within highly glycolytic hepatoma cells , a property that may help assure that such cells exhibit a growth and survival advantage over their parental cells of origin .
These results suggest that T140 analogs have potential use for cancer therapy , and that small molecular CXCR4 antagonists could potentially replace neutralizing antibodies as anti - metastatic agents for breast cancer .
The interleukin ( IL ) 2 - and beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin ( beta ( 2 ) m ) - deficient ( IL - 2 ( null ) x beta ( 2 ) m ( null ) ) mice spontaneously develop colon cancer in the setting of chronic UC .
Low concentrations of SN - 38 , but not 5 - FU and L - OHP , preferentially inhibited endothelial cell proliferation .
No significant association between p53 and VEGF expressions and poor prognosis was found .
As antagonists were used the tripeptide FPR and non - peptide 1 , 4 - disubstituted piperazine derivatives .
These sinusoids had a great deal of surface area for potential contact with the fetal component .
In vivo and in vitro results .
Whereas agents seem promising in the test tube , clinical trials often fail due to unfavorable pharmacokinetics , poor delivery , low local concentrations , and limited accumulation in the target cell .
In summary , the angiogenic property of oral cancer cells is mediated by many factors in addition to VEGF and the functional status of p53 .
However , whether hemostatic factors contribute directly or indirectly to the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis remains uncertain .
GTPase - deficient , constitutively activated mutant of Galpha ( 12 ) ( Galpha ( 12 ) Q229L or Galpha ( 12 ) QL ) has been previously shown to induce oncogenic transformation of NIH3T3 cells promoting serum - and anchorage - independent growth .
METHODS : Expression of MMP - 9 was studied in human NPC cell lines cultured in vitro : CNE1 ( well differentiated cell line of NPC ) and CNE1 - GL ( CNE1 cell line transfected with an eukaryotic LMP1 - expression plasmid ) by SP immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis .
The effect of von Hippel - Lindau ( VHL ) gene and hypoxia on VEGF - B and VEGF - C expression in the renal carcinoma cell line 786 - 0 transfected with wild - type and mutant VHL was determined by growing cells under 21 % O2 - and 0 . 1 % O2 .
Overexpression of Glut - 1 glucose transporter in human breast cancer .
Very low - dose irradiation ( 2 x 2 Gy ) is a new , effective , and safe local treatment for follicular lymphoma .
We thus have identified a novel element of the complex signaling network involved in the control of cell proliferation and differentiation .
Multiple studies are ongoing to determine the clinical benefits of aflibercept in cancer patients .
The molecular mechanisms regulating the gene expression under hypoxic conditions could increase the therapeutic window of tumor - specific delivery systems .
hTERT activity is associated with nodal metastases and cellular proliferation .
Similar results were obtained with phVEGF121 , phVEGF165 , and phVEGF189 , which suggests that these isoforms are biologically equivalent with respect to in vivo angiogenesis .
The rats were divided into 4 groups .
Furthermore , we investigated the correlation between CXCR4 expression and the clinical features of 221 gastric cancer tissue samples .
Finally , we identified FGF13 as a new prognostic marker that predicted poorer outcome in patients who were clinically considered free from disease .
METHODS : Human umbilical endothelial cells were treated with angiostatin or thalidomide and bFGF - induced proliferation was assessed with the MTT assay .
METHODS : Using human colon adenocarcinoma tissues ( hereinafter referred to as colon cancer ) and their corresponding non - diseased colon from 114 patients ' biopsies , the expression of SPARC and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) were investigated by immunohistochemistry staining to assessment the relationship between SPARC and VEGF , as well as their prognostic significance in patients .
From one of the revertants , we recovered a 0 . 2 - kb cDNA , N56 , that suppresses the tumor growth of the transformed 3Y1 cells irrespective of the expression of the E6 and E7 genes .
[ Inhibitory effect of adenovirus - mediated endostatin gene transfer on transplanted lung carcinoma in mice ]
The volume density of blood vessels between the two investigated areas was significantly lower in the 1 mm / day groups , suggesting a delay in angiogenesis in this group of patients .
Topoisomerase I protein expression in primary colorectal cancer and lymph node metastases .
The reference intervals for serum IL - 8 and urine IL - 8 corrected by creatinine ( Cr ) were 15 . 9 - 430 . 3 pg / mL and 0 . 0 - 28 . 4 pg / mg Cr , respectively .
Reduced growth - factor dependent , autonomous cell growth forms a critical defining point at which a normal cell turns into an oncogenic one .
METHODS : Immunohistochemistry was used to determine the distribution of opticin in normal human CBE , and in hyperplastic and neoplastic CBE lesions .
Exposure to activated platelet membranes and to soluble proteins contained in activated platelet releasate both contributed to the observed increase in invasion .
To grow , invade and metastasize , a treacherous society between cancer and host cells must be formed , and this association provides novel and effective clinical targets for cancer control and prevention .
3 - Chloromethylthiochromone - 1 , 1 - dioxide was observed to be a potent inhibitor of Ehrlich ascites carcinoma growth and a moderate inhibitor of P - 388 lymphocytic leukemia growth at 10 mg / kg / day .
CONCLUSION : The low expression or absence of stromal SPARC was an independent prognostic factor for poor prognosis of colon cancer .
However , PC12 cells do not precisely reflect the pathogenesis of malignant cells .
CONCLUSIONS / SIGNIFICANCE : These results suggested that intrinsic apoptotic pathway may involve in anti - tumor growth effects of HTPB in lung cancer cells .
These findings suggest that targeting beta ( 2 ) M or MHC class I by using antibodies or other agents offers a potential therapeutic approach for beta ( 2 ) M / MHC class I - expressing malignancies .
Diabetic mice , which typically show impaired postischemic muscular neovascularization and blood perfusion recovery , have these defects corrected by intramuscular gene transfer of a dominant negative mutant form of p75 ( NTR ) .
FM - MSC or BM - MSC obtained from Lewis rats were injected into a MHC - mismatched August - Copenhagen - Irish rat model of hind limb ischemia .
BMSVTs exhibited a partially transformed phenotype , demonstrating growth factor independence , altered antigen expression and forming tiny , infrequent colonies in vitro .
Our results suggest that this small peptide functions as an angiogenic inhibitor by inhibiting VEGF function through a non - VEGF binding mechanism .
We also showed ICAM - 3 - induced cell migration and invasion in NCI - H460 NSCLC cells ( wild - type p53 and PTEN cell ) through the same signaling pathway .
Trib1 and Evi1 cooperate with Hoxa and Meis1 in myeloid leukemogenesis .
PTHrP drives breast tumor initiation , progression , and metastasis in mice and is a potential therapy target .
L - deoxyribose ( L - dR ) and thymidine phosphorylase inhibitor ( TPI ) can reverse these effects .
The direct angiogenic activity of CCL16 is further amplified by its ability to prime endothelium to a mitogen signal induced by vascular endothelial growth factor A and to raise their basal production of CXCL8 and CCL2 , 2 other angiogenic chemokines .
Management of early and advanced colorectal cancer : therapeutic issues .
CD56 + putative natural killer cell lymphomas : production of cytolytic effectors and related proteins mediating tumor cell apoptosis ?
In brain , receptors for VEGF have been localized to vascular endothelium , neurons , and glia .
Among the members of this superfamily there are proteins with a regulatory function , such as ras , and proteins involved in vesicular trafficking , such as the family of rab proteins .
At necropsy , all macroscopic colonic tumors were identified and histologically classified as dysplasia or adenocarcinoma .
Our aim was to compare the angiogenesis associated with subcutaneous adipose tissue ( SAT ) and visceral adipose tissue ( VAT ) from the same obese patients in an in vivo model .
By contrast to the cytoplasmic BAG - 1 isoforms , BAG - 1L may act to suppress tumorigenesis .
These findings suggest that PA through protease cascade plays a role in tumor invasion and metastasis .
Robo4 knockdown endothelial cells unexpectedly show up regulation of Rho GTPases .
Aquaporins in human breast cancer : identification and involvement in carcinogenesis of breast cancer .
Our purpose was to examine human colon cancers for inactivation of two candidate metastasis suppressor genes , nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 , either by mutation or by loss of gene transcription .
Targeting SREBP could become a novel approach in fighting diseases involving abnormal ECs migration .
The vertebrate vasculature develops in remarkably similar fashion in all vertebrates .
The formation of new blood vessels from pre - existing ones requires highly coordinated restructuring of endothelial cells ( EC ) and the surrounding extracellular matrix .
LVI was correctly identified by D2 - 40 ( D2 - 40 + ) in 70 out of 254 tumors ( 28 % ) as compared to 40 tumors ( 16 % ) by routine HE staining ( HE + ) .
These results suggest that doxorubicin is able to induce cell death by apoptosis only at particular dose and treatment conditions and imply a completely different cellular response following bolus or continuous exposure to doxorubicin .
To determine whether changes in angiogenesis are responsible for the decrease in progesterone synthesis , we measured hemoglobin and CD34 levels in luteinized ovaries following injection of COX inhibitors and measured the relative frequency of cells positive for platelet - endothelial cell adhesion molecule as a specific marker for endothelial cells .
Aberrant angiogenesis is often associated with lesion formation in chronic periodontitis .
No other structural changes in serum were observed for cholesterol - based lipoplexes .
Tumour angiogenesis involves multiple cellular processes including endothelial cell proliferation , migration , reorganisation of extracellular matrix and tube formation .
CONCLUSION : Endostatin gene therapy mediated by adenoviral vector efficiently induces expression of endostatin in vivo , and inhibits the growth and metastasis of tumor .
Thus , inhibition of either ERK or Sp1 suppressed M - CSF - induced VEGF at the mRNA and protein level .
Endothelial cell staining was heterogeneous and varied in different regions .
OBJECTIVE : In the present study , we attempted to identify EGFR and TGF - alpha expression and Ki - 67 index in carcinoma ex - pleomorphic adenoma ( Ca ex - PA ) and PA .
RhoA activation promotes transformation and loss of thyroid cell differentiation interfering with thyroid transcription factor - 1 activity .
Younger patients and eyes with higher refractive error appear more likely to benefit from PDT with verteporfin .
The chemokine receptor CXCR4 is associated with the biological behavior of cancer , but few studies have addressed the expression and function of CXCR4 in human gastric cancer and its impact on disease prognosis .
In the present study , we investigated in vivo the regulation of leukocyte - vessel wall interactions by the presence of a tumor .
RESULTS : A total of 13 PCNSLs ( 31 % ) demonstrated hypermethylation in either the promoter or exon 1 ; loss of HRK expression was immunohistochemically observed in 9 tumors and was significantly associated with promoter methylation .
Thalidomide had no direct effect on endothelial cells .
The procedure is based on the use of a central skeleton of uteroglobin , a small and very soluble covalently linked homodimeric protein that is very resistant to proteolytic enzymes and to pH variations .
BACKGROUND : Mesenchymal stem cells ( MSCs ) transplantation is of therapeutic potential after ischemic injury in both experimental and clinical studies .
Finally , intraperitoneal injection or oral administration of HTPB efficiently inhibited A549 xenograft tumor growth in vivo without side effects .
The rapid cleavage of Tie1 is followed by a transcriptional down - regulation in response to shear stress .
These studies thus identify p600 as a shared target of the E7 proteins of multiple papillomaviruses .
N - glycosylation of glucose transporter - 1 ( Glut - 1 ) is associated with increased transporter affinity for glucose in human leukemic cells .
Importantly , the addition of a neutralizing VEGF antibody abolished M - CSF - induced blood vessel formation .
p63 also correlated with advanced pathological stage , tumor size , and the expression of human telomerase reverse transcriptase ( hTERT ) , tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase 1 ( TIMP1 ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
IL - 18 , originally identified as interferon - gamma inducing factor ( IGIF ) , is related to the IL - 1 family in terms of its structure as well as its processing , receptor , signal transduction pathway and pro - inflammatory properties .
The absence of functional von Hippel - Lindau ( VHL ) tumor suppressor gene leads to the development of neoplasias characteristic of VHL disease , including renal cell carcinoma ( RCC ) .
Molecular factors which implement this triad of events are reviewed , as are several signal transduction components which may regulate them .
The stimulation of inositol phosphate generation in control and ras - gene - transformed NIH - 3T3 cells by prostaglandin F2 alpha ( PGF2 alpha ) was investigated .
Exposure of wild - type primary mouse cerebral endothelial cells to the CD47 ligand thrombospondin 1 ( TSP - 1 ) induced an increasing amount of cell death , whereas cytotoxicity was significantly decreased in cerebral endothelial cells derived from CD47 knockout mice .
Y705 phosphorylation is conventionally thought to be required for Stat3 signal - dependent activation and seems to play an essential role in some malignancies .
Despite intensive investigations , the target genes of c - myb that are specifically involved in development of these myeloid lineage neoplasms are still unknown .
In this review , the mechanisms and factors involved in tumor blood vessel formation are discussed .
Cells of the highly metastatic lung - colonizing clone MTF7 . T35 . 3 , derived from the 13762NF cell line , were treated for 3 days with 0 . 1 , 1 , or 10 microM all - trans - RA , harvested , and seeded on [ 3H ] proline - labeled extracellular matrix deposited by cultured rat lung endothelial cells or on a film of purified [ 3H ] proline - labeled type IV collagen .
The selected peptide was tested for the antitumor activity against mildly aggressive xenografted prostate carcinoma and highly aggressive renal cell carcinoma .
Assays of electrophoretic mobility , DNA - binding specificity , and antigenicity indicated that Stat3 or a closely related STAT family member was constitutively activated by the Src oncoprotein .
Both cell types were found to express Trp1 , but neither expressed Trp3 nor Trp6 .
ERK1 / 2 and JNK inactivation was associated with Ets - like transcription factor - 1 ( ELK - 1 ) dephosphorylation .
One such agent , 3 - bromopyruvate ( 3 - BrPA ) , a lactic acid analog , has been shown to inhibit both glycolytic and mitochondrial ATP production in rapidly growing cancers ( Ko et al . , Cancer Letts . , 173 , 83 - 91 , 2001 ) , leave normal cells alone , and eradicate advanced cancers ( 19 of 19 ) in a rodent model ( Ko et al . , Biochem . Biophys . Res . Commun . , 324 , 269 - 275 , 2004 ) .
These processes are regulated by numerous pro - angiogenic and anti - angiogenic growth factors .
Western blot analysis of involved hematologic tissues of the p190 del C transgenics with end - stage disease showed high - level expression of the transgene and tyrosine phosphorylation of Cbl and Hef1 / Cas , proteins previously shown to be affected by Bcr / Abl .
Neuroblastoma is derived from SNS precursors .
Then , we demonstrated a mitochondrial membrane potential disruption followed by cytochrome c release that indicates the involvement of mitochondria in this apoptotic signaling pathway .
LDH5 overexpression was associated with histological type ( adenocarcinoma = 57 % , squamous cell carcinoma = 45 % , large cell carcinoma = 46 % , p = 0 . 006 ) .
Highly metastatic IV Cl 1 cells expressed approximately 5 fold lower levels of protein encoded by NME genes than non - metastatic IV Cl 3 cells .
Our data suggest for the first time that S727 phosphorylation is sufficient to activate Stat3 , thereby driving prostate tumorigenesis independent of Y705 phosphorylation .
The field is currently in ascendance due to two factors .
In vivo studies , CT26 cancer cells were implanted into BALB / c mice and groups of mice were treated with vehicle , DATS ( 10 and 50 mg / kg of body weight ) .
Furthermore , reduction of Pbx1 levels through RNAi - mediated knockdown significantly inhibited Evi - 1 - induced transformation .
In a third approach , cancer cells are induced to die by both apoptotic and necrotic events .
The Erbb2 receptor is activated by UV irradiation , the primary cause of non - melanoma skin cancer .
Daily i . p . injections of HAH - cortisol into mice bearing s . c . sponge implants retarded vascularization of the sponge , and injections directly into the sponge abolished vascularization for as long as the injections were continued .
The prognostic value of PE was also evaluated by dividing MDS / AML patients into high and low PE groups using the median PE level of normal controls as the cut - off .
Only 26 protein spots had a positive result , including annexin1 , S100A4 , and so on .
While endostatin is being investigated for its usefulness in treating solid tumors , its significance in hematologic malignancies is unknown .
Targeted antibody - based therapy has been used successfully to treat cancers .
The inhibition of fibrinolysis or proteases decreased the primary tumor growth and pulmonary metastasis , whereas the activation of fibrinolysis or proteases increased the number of metastatic foci in the lung .
Cell - matrix adhesion assay was used to study the adhesive ability of CNE1 - GL cells .
We have previously reported that dihydroartemisinin is found to have a potent ability in influencing lymphatic endothelial cell migration and tube formation .
Human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) and rat aorta smooth muscle cells ( RASMCs ) infected with AdCMV . VEGF165 ( 5 and 20 plaque - forming units [ pfu ] per cell ) demonstrated VEGF mRNA expression and protein secretion into the supernatant .
To study the combined effects of v - erbA and v - myb , the two oncogenes were engineered into a retrovirus bicistronic vector with an internal ribosomal entry site ( IRES ) or into a vector with a splice acceptor ( SPL ) .
Domain 5 ( D5 ) of cleaved high molecular weight kininogen ( HKa ) inhibits angiogenesis in vivo and endothelial cell migration in vitro , but the cell signaling pathways involved in HKa and D5 inhibition of endothelial cell migration are incompletely delineated .
This in vitro morphogenesis was inhibited by the addition of anti - sialyl Le ( x ) / Le ( a ) or anti - beta ( 1 ) - integrin antibodies , which led to the formation of cancer cell aggregates that were independent from the F - 2 cell networks .
A transcript from the long terminal repeats of a murine retrovirus associated with trans activation of cellular genes .
Mast cell heparin stimulates migration of capillary endothelial cells in vitro .
In this location , it interacts with other proteins of the focal adhesion to activate intracellular signalling events associated with cell adhesion .
This mutant enhanced the steady - level and transcriptional activity of ER .
Unexpectedly , cells expressing both Ras and TEL grew as aggregates .
The physiological significance of these observations are discussed .
The effects on hemostasis of DM - COOK , DTIC and ICRF - 159 have thus been examined in comparison with those of a purely cytotoxic agent , cyclophosphamide , in mice bearing i . m .
The transfer of apoptosis genes to tumors constitutes one of the most promising strategies for cancer gene therapy .
RSVT - 2 and RSVT2 / C cell lines were hyperproliferative and hyperinvasive when compared with the parental HTR8 cell line .
Hepatocyte growth factor ( HGF ) / c - Met signaling is thought to be a key pathway in both melanocyte development and melanoma metastasis .
Outcomes measures included transcutaneous blood gas levels , histology , total RNA content and analysis of alpha2 ( I ) collagen ( COL - I ) , type IV collagen ( COL - IV ) , alpha1 ( V ) collagen ( COL - V ) , and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression using real - time quantitative PCR .
UFT and its metabolites inhibit the angiogenesis induced by murine renal cell carcinoma , as determined by a dorsal air sac assay in mice .
Metronomic chemotherapy ( the frequent , long term , low dose administration of chemotherapeutic drugs ) is a promising therapy because it enhances the anti - endothelial activity of conventional chemotherapeutics , but with lower or no toxic effects compared to maximum tolerated dose administration .
The tumor apoptosis was observed by electron microscopy .
The single non - epithelial line induced foci and was found to contain an activated c - Ki - ras gene with a G - - - - A transition in codon 12 .
Higher platelet concentrations may expose beneficial effects of PRP .
After cytocentrifugation the specimens were stained in accordance with the alkaline phosphatase anti - alkaline phosphatase ( APAAP ) method .
Brick1 ( Brk1 ) is the less - studied component of the Wave / Scar pathway involved in the branched nucleation of actin fibers .
To date , the potential oncogenic properties of Tsg101 have not been examined in vivo owing to the lack of appropriate model systems .
Our data showed that under hypoxia the secreted sTie2 selectively inhibited tube formation and migration capacities of endothelial cells in vitro .
The Wilms ' tumor 1 ( WT1 ) gene is a tumor suppressor gene that encodes a zinc - finger transcription factor .
Heart rate decreased by 32 % for 20 to 40 minutes after injection and was chronically reduced by 10 % , 14 % , and 18 . 5 % after 1 , 2 , and 3 weeks of treatment , respectively .
Two major type IV collagenolytic metalloproteinases exhibiting molecular weights of 64 , 000 and 88 , 000 , respectively , were detected by this method .
Extensive regulation contributes to normal growth control , abrogation of regulatory controls contributes to uncontrolled growth as seen with erb B transformation and EGF receptor gene amplification in human tumors .
Inhibition of c - Jun amino - terminal kinase ( JNK ) blocked type III collagen expression in LRP - 1 - deficient MEFs , suggesting regulation of JNK activity as a mechanism by which LRP - 1 controls mRNA expression .
Because poor skin wound healing associated with diabetes is thought to be partly a result from impaired angiogenesis , treatments that improve angiogenesis could have important clinical applications .
It suggests that osteopontin plays an important role in human glioma progression .
Implications for a possible role of tumor cell / host TGF - beta interactions in human breast cancer progression .
Expression and purification of the catalytic domain of human vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 for inhibitor screening .
While the study of angiogenesis as a phenomenon is still in an early phase , it has become possible , by using a combination of in vitro and in vivo techniques , to more thoroughly understand the initiation and control of capillary growth .
A DNA fragment containing Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) terminal fragment sequence was obtained from a genomic library of nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( NPC ) .
RESULTS : VEGF isoforms and its receptors ' mRNA were expressed in neuroblastoma and control tissues .
The number of retinal vascular findings was not significantly correlated with serous elevation of the retina .
The incidence of high - grade lesions ( high - grade dysplasia / carcinoma in situ and invasive adenocarcinoma ) in the folate - supplemented group was 46 % lower than that in the control group ( 35 . 3 % versus 65 . 1 % , P = 0 . 009 ) .
We reported earlier on the oncogenic properties of Grm1 by demonstrating that stable Grm1 - mouse - melanocytic clones proliferate in the absence of growth supplement and anchorage in vitro .
CONCLUSIONS : Our promising results on the potential antitumor effects of hPNAS - 4 on ovarian cancer in vitro and in vivo may be explained , in part , by the induction of apoptosis and inhibition of angiogenesis .
s - VEGF in peripheral blood samples was analyzed in 40 RCC patients and 40 patients without cancer ( controls ) using a sandwich enzyme - linked immunoassay .
Inhibition of p38 SAPK reduced CBP HAT activity and its recruitment to the SRF . MRTF - A complex , whereas enforced induction of p38 by upstream activators ( e . g . MKK3 and MKK6 ) enhanced both CBP HAT and CCN1 promoter activities .
Our results provide the first evidence of the abilities of the LMP1 gene , acting alone , to effectively induce the proliferation of primary MEF cells and of its cooperativity with another cellular oncogene in transforming primary cells .
Finally , Bcl - 2 is significantly increased in the neuroblastoma cells cultured in the conditioned media .
Such activities of p53 would not only help to prevent cancer development , but might also contribute to non - tumour related roles for p53 , such as in the regulation of longevity .
However , the mechanism ( s ) by which ciprofloxacin elicits its biological effects on bladder cancer cells is not well documented .
Many observations in various animal models and humans support that the remodeling of preexisting collateral vessels is the mechanism of collateral artery formation .
Based on these optimized parameters , a prototype diagnostic / treatment system was designed that captures high - speed indocyanine green ( ICG ) angiogram images and facilitates analysis of the images by enhancing visualization of dye movement through CNV feeder vessels ( FVs ) .
PURPOSE : Heparin immobilized porous poly ( D , L - lactic - co - glycolic acid ) ( PLGA ) microspheres were prepared for sustained release of basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) to induce angiogenesis .
BACKGROUND : Inflammation followed by fibrosis is a component of islet dysfunction in both rodent and human type 2 diabetes .
Low density lipoprotein receptor - related protein - 1 ( LRP - 1 ) is a catabolic receptor for extracellular matrix ( ECM ) structural proteins and for proteins that bind to ECM .
The response to taxol and heparin - steroid was similar to that of the HPVAM , a validated angiogenesis assay .
There were no differences in NME mRNA levels between these two cell lines , suggesting that expression of these proteins is regulated at a post - transcriptional level .
In vitro studies also suggest progesterone may play a role in modulating inflammation .
Here , HGF stimulation of melanocytes was seen to up - regulate c - Met expression .
The neoplastic transformation of cultured rat liver epithelial cells by various means has consistently been associated with the development of resistance to the mito - inhibitory effect of transforming growth factor beta ( TGF - beta ) , suggesting that such phenotype plays a mechanistic role during the transformation of these cells .
Here we studied clusterin expression in PNT1a cells subjected to serum - starvation with the aim of defining clusterin early molecular changes following apoptosis induction .
In contrast , rap1GAPII , a negative regulator of Rap1 , did not inhibit ephrin - B1 - induced membrane ruffling .
This technique also revealed the inhibitory effect of the NOS inhibitor N ( G ) - iminoethyl - L - ornithine in VEGF - mediated in vivo angiogenesis .
Together these findings establish Wnt signaling as a metastasis regulator in melanoma .
The stromal fibrous reaction associated to infiltrating carcinomas is responsible of focal increased density , and architectural distorsion , ultrasound acoustic shadowing ; abnormal neoangiogenesis can be detected by Doppler , CT or MR imaging .
These data suggest that VEGF plays a role in the biology of CML and that VEGF inhibitors should be investigated in CML .
We conclude that stimulation of a putative growth factor signal pathway , associated with ras - induced proliferation , transiently suppresses the induction of transcription factors functionally involved in cell growth and differentiation .
Although angiostatin administered intravenously is cleared from the circulation in a matter of minutes , angiostatin - mimetics that are more stable have potential for clinical application .
Here , we demonstrate in mice pleiotropic involvement of PTHrP in key steps of breast cancer - it influences the initiation and progression of primary tumors and metastases .
Epithelial keratitis and corneal edema also developed in the immunized animals during the first week after virus challenge , but these symptoms rapidly resolved during the following weeks .
BACKGROUND : Abdominal surgery can lead to intra - abdominal adhesions with significant morbidity and mortality .
The cells on 15 - microm wide strips completely aligned in the direction of the strip , and had significantly lower shape index than those in all other groups .
Multivariate analysis demonstrated that alpha - SMA and lymph node metastasis were identified as independent predictive factors of metastasis .
SPARC maybe involved in the regulation of anti - angiogenesis by which it may serve as a novel target for colon cancer treatment as well as a novel distinctive marker .
There was also a direct correlation between the presence of choroidal neovascularization and size of the PED ( P = 0 . 03 ) .
We have previously reported that intercellular adhesion molecule - 3 ( ICAM - 3 ) is associated with an increase of cellular radio - resistance and cancer cell proliferation .
Endothelialisation and platelet adhesion to purified endothelial cell - derived perlecan , the major heparan sulfate ( HS ) proteoglycan in basement membranes , were investigated using in vivo and in vitro assays .
The tumour suppressor p53 and interferon - alpha and - beta ( IFN - alpha / beta ) are essential for the induction of apoptosis in cancerous cells and in antiviral immune responses , respectively , but little is known about their interrelationship .
Upon initiation of angiogenesis with basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) on the chick chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) , endothelial cell mitogen - activated protein ( MAP ) kinase ( ERK ) activity was detected as early as 5 min yet was sustained for at least 20 h .
These proteins are mainly produced by specific integral parts of the viral genome , the oncogenes .
The success of current systemic and intravesical therapeutic agents , such as cisplatin , thiotepa , Adriamycin , mitomycin C , and bacillus Calmette - Guerin , is limited with recurrence rates reduced to 17 - 44 % .
In the current study , Hedgehog signaling in tumor related vasculature and microenvironment was examined using human umbilical vein endothelial cells and B16F0 ( murine melanoma ) tumors models .
Human cervical cancer cells ( CaSki and SiHa ) were injected into the flanks of nude mice .
Role of thrombin in angiogenesis and tumor progression .
We found a significant positive correlation between IL - 8 and estradiol in normal breast tissue and hormone - dependent breast cancer in vivo .
Apart from the vascular grade , none of the other factors examined was statistically related to lymph node metastasis ( P less than 0 . 0001 ) .
Many researchers have demonstrated that hematopoietic cells express many homeobox genes .
Mast cells and tumors .
Ectopic expression of Cdc25a prevented UV - induced S - phase arrest in keratinocytes lacking Erbb2 activity , demonstrating that maintenance of Cdc25a by Erbb2 suppresses cell cycle arrest .
An exception is the adaptive immune system where lymphocytes utilize programmed DNA damage to effect antigen receptor diversification .
Similarly to mouse p15 ( INK4B ) , p10 expression is also induced by oncogenic insults and transforming growth factor - beta treatment and acts as a cell cycle inhibitor .
Evaluations were graded on a zero to four scale .
Curcumin ( 1 , 7 - bis ( 4 - hydroxy - 3 - methoxyphenyl ) - 1 , 6 - heptadiene - 3 , 5 - dione ) , is extracted from the plant Curcuma longa .
The DSCR1s promoter was similarly induced in the endothelium of tumor xenografts .
We performed comparative proteomic and pathway analysis of four human metastatic HCC cell lines to identify metastasis - associated proteins .
Viability , measured by the activity of mitochondrial dehydrogenases , was reduced significantly in the cells treated with Sim at 50 and 100 microM for 24 hours ( p < 0 . 005 ) .
CSC - high cultures and tumors expressed increased levels of the proangiogenic factors vascular endothelial growth factor and stromal - derived factor 1 , and when signaling by either factor was blocked , all aspects of angiogenesis observed in CSC - high cultures and tumors , including microvessel density , perfusion , EPC mobilization / recruitment , and stimulation of endothelial cell activity , were reduced to levels comparable with those observed in CSC - low cultures / tumors .
In MatrigelTM invasion assays , all subclones , which secreted enzymatically active ATX , demonstrated greater spontaneous and ATX - stimulated invasion than appropriate controls .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the effect of osteopontin silencing on the invasion and apoptosis of U251 cells .
CD40 engagement by CD154 did not affect apoptosis or survival .
In this review , we will discuss the current knowledge of MTSS1 ' s role in cancer metastasis , carcinogenesis , and development .
Pak1 associates with the complex of DLC1 and BimL , a proapoptotic BH3 - only protein , and phosphorylates both proteins .
In vivo studies with athymic nude mice demonstrated that injection of atx - transfected NIH3T3 cells resulted in a weak tumorigenic capacity with few experimental metastases .
Zebrafish Robo4 rescues both Rho GTPase homeostasis and serum reduced chemotaxis in robo4 knockdown cells .
Metabolic regulation by p53 .
RESULTS : The cRGD - HL significantly inhibited adhesion and migration of endothelial cells to vitronectin , and tubular structures of endothelial cells .
PTTG activated E - box transcription and induced c - Myc protein expression in EC9706 cells , which in turn may act on an E - box motif within the galectin - 1 promoter .
As such , sustained nuclear FOXO3a expression in breast cancer may culminate in cancer progression and the development of an aggressive phenotype similar to that observed in cytotoxic chemotherapy resistant breast cancer cell models .
We report that neuronal death resulting from focal cerebral ischaemia ( middle cerebral artery occlusion , 24 h ) is significantly inhibited ( by 50 % ) in rats injected with a recombinant IL - 1 receptor antagonist ( IL - 1ra , 10 micrograms , icv 30 min before and 10 min after ischaemia ) .
Since the prognosis of locally advanced and metastatic diseases is poor , increased understanding of the pathogenesis of NPC would be important for discovering novel markers for patients ' management .
s - VEGF significantly correlated with the tumor volume obtained by a three - dimensional measurement ( r = 0 . 802 , P less than 0 . 0001 ) .
SKOV3 cells were exposed to washed , thrombin receptor activating peptide ( TRAP ) - activated or TRAP - naive platelets under various experimental conditions , and tumor cell invasion was assayed in Matrigel chambers .
METHODS : Tissues samples were taken from 60 patients with esophageal SCC after surgery .
Transforming growth factor beta 1 promotes spontaneous transformation of cultured rat liver epithelial cells .
Patterns of X - chromosome inactivation , mutations in the K - ras gene , mutations or allelic loss of the p53 gene , or human papillomavirus detection were identical in both endometrial and ovarian lesions in three of the cases suggesting that those three cases represented single primary tumors with metastases .
Furthermore , the possibility of selective targeting of PTEN mutant tumor cells by specific pharmacologic inhibitors of members of the Pten / PI3K / Akt pathway opens up new perspectives for a targeted molecular therapy of malignant gliomas .
A univariate analysis of survival showed that vascular grade was the most significant prognostic factor ( P = 0 . 0004 ) , followed by N - stage ( P = 0 . 001 ) .
RESULTS : Endometrial glands in the proliferative and early secretory phase expressed both DCC and netrin - 1 , but glands in the late - secretory phase tended to silence DCC expression .
Prolonged culture led to the implantation of cancer cells into the monolayer of the F - 2 cells , which was mediated mainly by alpha ( 3 ) beta ( 1 ) - integrin .
BAG - 1 regulates cellular growth , differentiation and survival through interactions with diverse proteins , including the vitamin D receptor ( VDR ) , a key regulator of keratinocyte growth and differentiation .
Statistically significant differences were observed regarding angiogenesis between the control group and groups 3 and 4 .
Single conditional knockouts for Smad1 or Smad5 or mice homozygous null for Smad8 are viable and fertile .
Thirty uterine cervix specimens sampled following conization or total hysterectomy were studied using histology , histoenzymology ( vessel phosphatase alkaline activity ) , and immunohistochemistry ( demonstration of laminin and type IV collagen in epithelium and vessel basement membranes ) .
Individuals with MEN IIA should therefore undergo early prophylactic thyroidectomy once the diagnosis is confirmed by molecular genetic testing .
Thus , metabolically - altered islet endothelium might affect the beta - cell microenvironment and contribute to progressive type 2 diabetic beta - cell dysfunction in GK rats .
Nevertheless , its precise physiological role has not yet been established , and both anti - apoptotic and pro - apoptotic functions have been suggested for this gene .
SPARC ( secreted protein , acidic , and rich in cysteine ) is a matrix - associated glycoprotein that modulates the adhesion and proliferation of vascular cells .
p - XSC effectively inhibits AR expression and transcriptional activity in both cell lines .
Analysis of TGF - beta RII mRNA expression by RNase protection , with comparison of cells from the chronic , accelerated and blast phases of CML , showed no change in TGF - beta RII transcript levels during disease progression .
Autotaxin ( ATX ) , a potent tumor motogen , augments invasive and metastatic potential of ras - transformed cells .
In in vitro study , honokiol inhibited VEGF - D - induced survival , proliferation and tube - formation of both human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) and lymphatic vascular endothelial cells ( HLECs ) .
METHODS : NF - kappaB inhibition was achieved by IkappaBalpha super - repressor adenoviral vector and activation was monitored by EMSA and reporter assays .
Treatment of NIH3T3 / KDR cells with TKI - 31 blocked VEGF - induced phosphorylation of KDR in a dose - dependent manner .
Vitamin E inhibits experimental carcinogenesis and tumour angiogenesis .
Hyperfibrinogenemia ( > 310 mg / dl ) was independently associated with lymph node ( Odds Ratio ; 2 . 342 , P = 0 . 0032 ) and liver ( Odds Ratio ; 2 . 933 , P = 0 . 0147 ) metastasis , not with peritoneal metastasis in this series .
p53 - deficient cancers are often unstable , aggressive , and resistant to therapy .
Caffeine inhibits adenosine - induced accumulation of hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha , vascular endothelial growth factor , and interleukin - 8 expression in hypoxic human colon cancer cells .
Systematic proteomic analysis of human hepotacellular carcinoma cells reveals molecular pathways and networks involved in metastasis .
TIMP2 and TIMP3 play functional role in LPA - induced invasion as negative regulators .
If generalizable to additional cell lines and human disease , this observation may partially explain the adverse prognosis associated with thrombocytosis in ovarian cancer .
This study establishes the potential of metabolic targeting as a broader means to kill and sensitize myeloma and identifies a compound that can achieve this goal .
The Ha - ras oncogene alone did not convert normal human fibroblasts into either immortal or tumorigenic cells .
When stably over - expressed in maximal transformed SV - 52 cells , CK1delta mutants induced reversion to a minimal transformed phenotype by dominant - negative interference with endogenous wtCK1delta .
METHODS : This review discusses our current understanding of the mechanisms of TGF - beta signaling , focusing on the roles of TGF - beta in regulation of vascular wall cells and on the regulation of TGF - beta superfamily signals by inhibitory Smads .
Interestingly , in CaSki cells , which were more suggestive of a resistant phenotype , paclitaxel induced the activation of mTOR as a downstream target of Akt .
Injection of VEGF - neutralizing antibodies over a 2 - week period completely blocked alinidine - stimulated angiogenesis .
Forty male golden hamsters were divided into four equal groups .
In this report , we demonstrate that murine bone marrow contains endothelial progenitors , which arise from a cell with self - renewing capacity , and can integrate into tumor microvasculature , albeit at a very low frequency .
Six of the 8 patients whose disease progressed have died .
Similarly , flow cytometric measurements revealed that leukocyte apoptosis was increased in MTX - treated animals , while L - Car reversed these effects .
Marrow cells survived and continued exogenous hemopoiesis for up to six months and were immunohistochemically reactive to basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) .
The induction of aerobic glycolysis is an important component of STAT3 pro - oncogenic activities , since inhibition of STAT3 tyrosine phosphorylation in the tumour cell lines down - regulates glycolysis prior to leading to growth arrest and cell death , both in vitro and in vivo .
Moreover , outward growth migration model and transwell chamber assay were used to detect ECs migration .
Histologic evaluation revealed that although tumors overexpressing TIMP - 3 had an increased number of CD31 ( + ) endothelial cells , these endothelial cells had not formed functional tubules , as evidenced by decreased vessel continuity and minimal pericyte recruitment .
Hypoxic tumor cells distant from blood vessels were dramatically reoxygenated at 24 h postirradiation , and HIF - 1 activity increased as HIF - 1alpha accumulated in the reoxygenated regions .
PTTG overexpression correlated with lymph node metastasis ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Reduction of TCF activity in these cells attenuates their ability to form brain and bone metastases in mice , independently of effects on tumor growth in the lungs .
1 - Tetradecylpyrrolidine N - oxide ( TPNO ) , one of the most active compounds , immediately after addition to the suspension of Ehrlich cells in an ice bath , decreased the level of ATP to the same extent over the whole concentration range .
METHODS : We analyzed the hypermethylation status and expression of the gene and 12q13 . 1 loss of heterozygosity in 31 PCNSLs .
Although anti - VEGF therapies have clearly demonstrated antitumor efficacy in various malignancies , especially when combined with conventional cytotoxic chemotherapy , their mechanism of action is not fully understood .
Experiments with a temperature - sensitive mutant of Rous sarcoma virus demonstrated that a single oncogene product is sufficient to inhibit the synthesis .
In conclusion , allogeneic FM - MSC injection did not elicit a lymphocyte proliferative response and provided significant improvement in a rat model of hind limb ischemia , comparable to the response to BM - MSC .
Inhibition of NO synthase by L - NAME might induce an anti - tumour effect by limiting nutrients and oxygen to reach tumour tissue or affecting vascular growth .
Only one eye received a second PDT treatment due to choroidal neovascularization .
BACKGROUND : Breast cancers have higher than normal glucose metabolism , but the mechanism of glucose entry into these tumors is not well understood .
The alternative splicing of Brn - 3a mRNA produces two molecular forms : a longer , Bcl - 2 transactivating form , and a shorter inactive form , lacking 84 AA in the aminoterminus .
In addition , p21 - or p16 - mediated growth arrest did not protect glioma cells from E2F - 1 - mediated apoptosis .
a pilot study .
However , there was no difference in expression of TSP - 2 and CD36 mRNA in these samples .
We show that PSMA inhibition , knockdown , or deficiency decreases endothelial cell invasion in vitro via integrin and PAK , thus abrogating angiogenesis .
Acquired molecular abnormalities ( mutations or chromosomal translocations ) of the RUNX1 transcription factor gene are frequent in acute myeloblastic leukemias ( AMLs ) and in therapy - related myelodysplastic syndromes , but rarely in acute lymphoblastic leukemias ( ALLs ) and chronic myelogenous leukemias ( CMLs ) .
OBJECTIVES : To compare the proteomic expression profile between an Epstein - Barr virus - associated NPC cell line ( C666 - 1 ) and a normal NP cell line ( NP69 ) .
Biopsy specimens were examined by real - time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction ( RT - PCR ) and Western blotting ; serum was analyzed by enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) .
DESIGN : Paraffin - embedded sections of 37 breast carcinomas were immunostained for survivin , bcl - 2 , bcl - x , and bax .
However , as only a fraction of cells in advanced Kaposi ' s sarcoma lesions express vGPCR , it is unclear whether this unique viral oncogene contributes to Kaposi ' s sarcoma progression .
Cancer is a disease largely dependent on neoangiogenesis .
Among a myriad of biological activities described for xanthone derivatives , the anticancer activity is quite remarkable , but the molecular mechanism is not clearly resolved .
CONCLUSION : A study of both alpha - catenin and p53 expression may be helpful to predict lymph node metastases in early gastric cancer .
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE : Cerebral cavernous malformations ( CCMs ) are prevalent cerebral vascular lesions involving aberrant angiogenesis .
These events are associated with a short survival and support the concept of a cooperative effect of BCR - ABL with molecular RUNX1 abnormalities on the differentiation arrest phenotype observed during progression of CML and in BCR - ABL + ALL .
An evaluation of low molecular weight heparin and hyperbaric oxygen treatment in the prevention of intra - abdominal adhesions and wound healing .
This growth factor system exerts multiple physiologic effects on the vasculature through both endocrine and autocrine / paracrine mechanisms .
METHODS : Standard therapy with primary resection followed by adjuvant chemotherapy and radiation had failed in all patients .
Several factors contribute to the start of intimal thickening .
Treatment with the combination of 1B3 and DC101 in BxPC - 3 xenograft - bearing mice resulted in tumor regression in 58 % of mice compared to that in 18 % of mice treated with DC101 alone .
None of the epithelial cell lines induced foci in a focus formation assay .
Inhibitors of Hedgehog signaling have been the subject of intense research .
Thalidomide and angiostatin inhibit tumor growth in a murine xenograft model of human cervical cancer .
The last 7 years have seen over seven times as many publications indexed by Medline dealing with pomegranate and Punica granatum than in all the years preceding them .
In contrast , in the presence of GM - CSF or FBS , apoptosis was enhanced upon addition of CHX or Act D .
Expression of osteoprotegerin and RANK ligand in breast cancer bone metastasis .
Relationship between of blood flow , glucose metabolism , protein synthesis , glucose and ATP content in experimentally - induced glioma ( RG1 2 . 2 ) of rat brain .
Correspondingly , Fh1 - deficient benign murine renal cysts and an advanced human HLRCC - related renal cell carcinoma manifested a prominent and progressive increase in the expression of HIF - alpha target genes and in genes known to be relevant to tumorigenesis and metastasis .
Meclofenamate and indomethacin were tested in an attempt to confirm recent reports of anti - edema activity in non steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAID ' s ) .
Cisplatin reduces endothelial cell migration via regulation of type 2 - matrix metalloproteinase activity .
The rapid down - regulation of Tie1 by shear stress changes and its rapid binding to Tie2 may be required for destabilization of endothelial cells in order to initiate the process of vascular restructuring .
These effects do not require direct cell - cell contact , yet result from continuous interaction between activated lymphoid cells and EC .
Here , we evaluated the usefulness of measuring serum and urine IL - 8 levels in patients with NHL .
Matrix metalloproteinase / tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinase phenotype identifies poor prognosis colorectal cancers .
[ Effects of Epstein - Barr virus latent membrane protein 1 ( EBV - LMP1 ) on related factors of metastasis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line CNE1 ] .
We hypothesized that signaling through multiple mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) kinase ( MKK ) pathways is essential for the growth and vascularization of soft - tissue sarcomas , which are malignant tumors derived from mesenchymal tissues .
These new insights into the involvement of syndecans in disease and tissue repair coupled with the emergence of syndecan - specific molecular tools may lead to novel therapies for a variety of human diseases .
Although only further research will determine the exact nature of VEGF ' s role after seizures , preliminary data indicate that VEGF plays a protective role after seizures .
This event is independent of fibrin formation .
The migration activity of mast cell conditioned medium was resistant to heat ( 100 degrees C ) and incubation with proteolytic enzymes .
Although previous studies have concentrated on the effect of UV - B on the host immune response , the effect of UV - B on the tumor cells was not elucidated .
In this review , this evidence is surveyed together with evidence from analogous situations , such as tumour cell migration and invasiveness .
In particular , the activity of angiogenic factors is crucial for tumor progression .
Arterial pressure and cardiac output were unchanged .
Cotreatment of cell lines with a hormone and its specific antagonist blocked the effect of the hormone .
Host - derived angiopoietin - 2 affects early stages of tumor development and vessel maturation but is dispensable for later stages of tumor growth .
Molecular mediators of interactions with extracellular matrix components in metastasis and angiogenesis .
Our results suggest that blood flow limits glucose supply to tumor tissue at much higher flow rates than in normal brain which , in turn , is associated with a decrease in tumor glucose utilization .
Promoting angiogenesis via delivery of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and other angiogenic factors is both a potential therapy for cardiovascular diseases and a critical aspect for tissue regeneration .
We further estimated the threshold of APC protein level that forms one polyp per mouse as approximately 15 % of the wild type .
Bradycardia was induced in rats by administering the bradycardic drug alinidine ( 3 mg / kg body weight ) twice daily .
Suppressed transformation and induced differentiation of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells by emodin .
Expression of SPARC was significantly correlated with the expression of VEGF and MVD in colon cancer tissues .
Since both cell lines remained non - tumorigenic in nude mice , these properties indicate that they attained a premalignant phenotype .
CONCLUSIONS : The data suggest that PI3K / Akt - NF - kappaB axis may promote PC bone metastasis in part by regulating transcription and activation of the BMP - 2 - Smad signaling cascade in osteotropic PC cells .
In juvenile brca2 mutants , oocytes failed to progress through meiosis , leading to female - to - male sex reversal .
We examined the effect of distraction rate on blood vessel growth in intramembraneous ossification after vertical distraction osteogenesis in the human mandible .
Mice that received either IR or TEMF had significantly fewer lung metastatic sites and slower tumor growth than did untreated mice .
Together , these findings suggest that NCAM may limit tumor cell metastasis by stabilizing the microvessel wall .
RESULTS : Both wild - type and mutant PTEN can upregulate the expression of PTEN gene dramatically ; however , it is wild - type PTEN not phosphatase - inactive PTEN that can induce apoptosis and decrease cell migration , invasion and proliferation in ovarian cancer cells .
BACKGROUND : Roundabouts are axon guidance molecules that have recently been identified to play a role in vascular guidance as well .
The CCAAT / enhancer - binding protein beta ( C / EBPbeta ) transcription factor has been associated with several cancer models .
Abnormal expression of E - cadherin and beta - catenin may be a molecular marker of submucosal invasion and lymph node metastasis in early gastric cancer .
There was no correlation between HSP27 expression and clinical stage , lymph node metastasis and histological grade .
Extracellular matrix as a bioactive material for soft tissue reconstruction .
Although the exact mechanisms underlying the Warburg effect are unclear , the existing evidence suggests that increased glycolysis plays an important role in support malignant behavior of cancer cells .
Myeloma cells counteracted the metabolic stress by activating autophagy .
Further investigation using inhibition or genetic deletion of Erbb2 in vitro revealed reduced Cdc25a levels and increased S - phase arrest in UV - irradiated cells lacking Erbb2 activity .
This was confirmed with chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments of the human c - Met promoter , as well as by the ability of adenovirally expressed Mitf to modulate endogenous c - Met protein levels in melanocytes .
There was no difference in fat encapsulation , necrosis , hemorrhage , or exudate between prostheses .
None of the tumors or the healthy breast in the tissues studied expressed Glut - 3 or Glut - 5 .
Because there is little information on the expression of topo I in colorectal tumors , this study evaluated and characterized topo I protein expression in primary colorectal cancer and lymph node metastases and studied the association between topo I protein expression and clinicopathologic data , p53 status , and proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( PCNA ) status .
In this study , we have examined the ability of the purine analogue 8 - aminoadenosine to acutely reduce glucose consumption by regulating localization and expression of key glucose transporters .
The scope of the present review is to discuss from a clinical point of view the potential interactions between VEGF and angiopoietins in the asthmatic airways , and focus on the therapeutic implications targeting for these angiogenic factors .
Consistent with these apoptotic effects , our results showed that sunitinib inhibited phosphorylation of Akt and mTOR and was followed by a reduction of S6K1 , which is a well - known target of mTOR .
Energy supply of the mitotic cell cycle and the Na + / H + - antiport in ascites tumors .
Using wound - healing assay and Boyden chamber assay , GA had potent inhibitory effects on AGS cell migration .
We conclude that prefabrication of a fat flap is possible and may have extensive application in various areas of plastic surgery .
Tobacco smoke promotes lung tumorigenesis by triggering IKKbeta - and JNK1 - dependent inflammation .
Immunohistochemistry with 27 primary antibodies was performed in 100 formalin - fixed paraffin - embedded samples of invasive ductal carcinomas .
Results show that the process : VEGF - a - - greater than EphA2 - - greater than MMPs - - greater than VM is the main pathway for VM formation and VEGF - a appears to play an important role in the formation of VM based on our in vitro assays and clinical immunohistochemical analyses .
PURPOSE : The poor prognosis associated with lung cancer is related to the high incidence of regional and distant metastasis .
Interestingly , Dss1 expression was also shown to be elevated in skin papillomas relative to normal skins , and further increased in squamous cell malignancies .
DNA damage induces a novel p53 - survivin signaling pathway regulating cell cycle and apoptosis in acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells .
Furthermore , we found a significant association between tumour location , tumour grade and node status and the methylation status of the APC gene ( p < = 0 . 05 ) .
Here we report that the chemotherapeutic drug doxorubicin , a DNA - damaging agent , activates a p53 - survivin signaling pathway inducing cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ) .
Hypoxia - inducible factor 1 ( HIF - 1 ) activates vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) gene expression in hypoxic / ischemic tissue .
The breast epithelium comprises cells at different stages of differentiation , including stem cells , progenitor cells , and more differentiated epithelial and myoepithelial cells .
In this report , we analyzed the expression of Plexin C1 using immunohistochemistry on sections of primary and matched metastatic lesions from 19 subjects and in a large melanoma tumor microarray .
Furthermore , transfection of E - cadherin cDNA into invasive NM - f - ras - TD cells resulted in the upregulation of syndecan - 1 expression in association with decreased invasiveness .
In contrast , the implants that were irradiated three times ( single fractions at 0 , 24 , and 48 hours after implantation ) demonstrated significantly diminished ( greater than 25 percent , p less than 0 . 05 ) neovascularization beyond day 7 , whereas implants irradiated only at 48 hours after implantation did not .
These results indicate carbohydrate metabolism is altered in dogs with lymphoma .
Consequently , mitochondrial integrity is compromised , and the caspase - 9 - dependent cascade is activated in treated tumor cells .
METHODS : The expression of DCC and netrin - 1 in normal endometrial glands and in cancer cell lines was examined by RT - PCR and immunohistochemistry .
Cells cannot survive extended severe ischemia but may be able to adapt to a moderate condition where diffusion to and from bordering nonischemic regions sustains vital functions .
Overexpression of CYR61 , CTGF , WISP - 1 , and NOV occurred in 48 % ( 32 of 66 ) , 58 % ( 38 of 66 ) , 36 % ( 24 of 66 ) , and 15 % ( 10 of 66 ) of primary gliomas , respectively .
Overall , our findings identify AMPK as an important target protein for mediating the anti - tumor properties of AglRhz in HT - 29 colon cancer cells and have important implication for sponges , the most important marine source , in colon cancer .
Human K562 cells , which express PHGPX , but not GPX , were also more sensitive to t - BuOOH in the Se - deficient ( K . Se ( - ) ) than Se - satisfied ( K . Se ( + ) ) condition .
During 8 days of culture under 5 % O ( 2 ) , but not room air , the addition of FGF2 to explants stimulated the formation of Gs - IB ( 4 - ) positive , CD31 - positive , and Flk - 1 - positive microvessels in a concentration - dependent manner .
There was a significant correlation between E - cadherin and alpha - catenin expression , but no correlation was found between p53 expression and E - cadherin or alpha - catenin expression .
Immune consequences of burn injury .
Receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) analysis gave 0 . 83 and 0 . 43 ROC area values for urine IL - 8 / Cr and serum IL - 8 , respectively .
MEK5 / ERK5 signaling modulates endothelial cell migration and focal contact turnover .
Endothelial cell migration and vascular endothelial growth factor expression are the result of loss of breast tissue polarity .
UV radiation has been shown to play a role in the initiation of human cutaneous melanoma , but its role in the development of malignant melanoma to the metastatic state is not very well defined .
However , the 5 - year survival rate of patients with high MMP - 9 protein expression were lower than those with low expression ( 19 vs . 4 . 7 % , p < 0 . 05 ) .
In addition , when 200 micrograms U - 995 was injected i . p . into mice it suppressed sarcoma - 180 cell growth and B16 - F10 mouse melanoma cell metastasis in vivo .
These may be associated with plant based anti - inflammatory effects , The phytochemistry and pharmacological actions of all Punica granatum components suggest a wide range of clinical applications for the treatment and prevention of cancer , as well as other diseases where chronic inflammation is believed to play an essential etiologic role .
Glycolysis was affected by pharmacological regulation of c - Myc and HIF - 1alpha .
All four metastatic hybrids expressed 60 - 72 kDa gelatinase activity , while three of them also had 92 kDa activity and one had only minimal 92 kDa activity .
Ectopic expression of SEMA3B or SEMA3F reduced soft - agar colony formation , adhesion , and cell invasion of ovarian cancer cell cultures .
The nm23 - H1 mRNA expression levels in CBM with lymph nodes metastases were lower than those in CBM without metastases ( P < 0 . 05 ) , while no significance of nm23 - H2 mRNA expression levels was found between CBM with and CBM without metastasis ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
H4IIEC3 ( H4 ) , a differentiated rat hepatoma line and H5 , its dedifferentiated subclone , were investigated as proliferating spheroids and as implanted subcutaneous tumors in juvenile rats .
A lesion was considered subfoveal if it extended underneath the geometric center of the FAZ .
The nucleotide sequence of the cDNA was shown to be identical to that of the 3 ' untranslated region of a putative mammalian polycomb group gene , mel - 18 .
The beneficial effect of IL - 1Ra on most islet endothelial / OS / immune cells / fibrosis parameters analyzed highlights a major endothelial - related role for IL - 1 in GK islet alterations .
Vascular histomorphometry was carried out in two different areas in the distraction gap : ( 1 ) in the first and ( 2 ) in the second 1 mm area from the osteotomy line , representing the oldest and younger new - bone area , respectively .
Overexpression of JNK1 or p38 was sufficient to induce HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression .
CONCLUSION : IMVD may be an important indicator to predict cervical lymphatic metastasis in LSCC .
Additionally , 3 - BrPA treatment significantly impaired lactate production by HepG2 cells , even when glucose was withdrawn from the incubation medium .
Although some recent reports suggest that microvessel counts in non - small cell lung cancer are related to a poor disease outcome , the results were not conclusive and were not compared with other molecular prognostic markers .
LRP - 1 also is implicated in integrin maturation .
This study investigates the systemic biochemical regulation of fracture healing in distraction osteogenesis compared with rigid osteotomy in a prospective in vivo study in humans .
The direct addition of all - trans - RA to conditioned medium had no effect on secreted collagenase activity .
Thrombin greatly potentiates vascular endothelial growth factor - ( VEGF - ) induced endothelial cell proliferation .
The restriction of BRCA1 promoter region hypermethylation to breast and ovarian cancer is consistent with a pathogenetic role of BRCA1 promoter methylation in these tumours .
The finding of retinal vasculopathy ( 32 patients in group 1 and two patients in group 2 ) was directly correlated with the presence of choroidal neovascularizations ( P = 0 . 002 ) .
Six subclones were randomly selected from H - 3 cells which had been subcultured to passage 22 .
The aim of this study was to investigate the molecular pathway of the cytotoxic effect of paclitaxel in human cervical cancer cell lines .
The ability of LRP - 1 to regulate expression of the factors identified here suggests a role for LRP - 1 in determining blood vessel structure and in angiogenesis .
Matrix metalloproteinase activity , determined using a quenched fluorescence substrate assay , increased during early healing ( 3 - 8 weeks ) compared to controls , and then decreased between 24 and 36 weeks after surgery ( p less than 0 . 05 until 24 weeks , Mann - Whitney U - test ) .
To address this question further , we analyzed the expression of c - myc in a myeloblastic cell line , M1 , expressing a conditionally active c - Myb - estrogen receptor fusion protein ( MybER ) .
Sci .
To delineate the roles that oxygen and fibroblast growth factors ( FGFs ) play in the process of angiogenesis from the embryonic aorta , we cultured mouse embryonic aorta explants ( thoracic level to lateral vessels supplying the mesonephros and metanephros ) in a three - dimensional type I collagen gel matrix .
Human papillomavirus oncoprotein E6 inactivates the transcriptional coactivator human ADA3 .
Pharmacological inhibition of autophagic flux by chloroquine increased apoptosis and decreased cell viability in hepatoma cells .
Two approaches were used to measure protein kinase C : assay of intact cells for inhibition of epidermal growth factor ( EGF ) binding in response to phorbol dibutyrate ( PDBu ) ; and assay of detergent extracts for total calcium , phospholipid - dependent kinase activity .
MDM2 as a predictor of prostate carcinoma outcome : an analysis of Radiation Therapy Oncology Group Protocol 8610 .
CONCLUSION : MCT targeting significantly reduced the viability of U - 87 MG cells mediated by both apoptosis and necrosis .
Insulin treatment also increased VEGF protein levels in conditioned RPE cell media in a dose - dependent manner with a median effective concentration of 5 nM .
Oxygent perfusion medium increased the TET epithelial PtO ( 2 ) ( 51 . 2 + / - 0 . 3 mm Hg vs . 33 . 4 + / - 0 . 3 mm Hg at 200 microm thickness ; 12 . 5 + / - 0 . 1 mm Hg vs . 3 . 1 + / - 0 . 1 mm Hg at 400 microm thickness , p less than 0 . 01 ) and decreased the lactate concentration ( 0 . 63 + / - 0 . 08 vs . 0 . 80 + / - 0 . 06 mmol / L , p less than 0 . 05 ) , lactate / pyruvate ( 1 . 87 + / - 0 . 26 vs . 3 . 36 + / - 10 . 13 , p less than 0 . 05 ) , and lactate / glucose ratios ( 0 . 10 + / - 0 . 00 vs . 0 . 29 + / - 0 . 14 , p less than 0 . 05 ) .
No tumours were induced within the latent period for tumour production by control cells transfected with NIH3T3 cell DNA ( 40 - 60 days ) .
Cell proliferation in each sample was assessed by using the Ki - 67 proliferation marker .
Heparin immobilized porous PLGA microspheres for angiogenic growth factor delivery .
2 - DG did not induce a significant cell cycle delay in monolayers , while a transient G ( 2 ) delay was apparent in spheroids .
Chemokine receptor CXCR4 expression , function , and clinical implications in gastric cancer .
Our data suggest that low oxygen upregulates FGFR1 expression in embryonic aorta in vitro and renders it more responsive to FGF2 .
This study suggests that angiogenin may be important in breast cancer progression and that , through its relationship with ER , it may be a target for tamoxifen .
The candidate tumour suppressor protein ING4 regulates brain tumour growth and angiogenesis .
Human cytomegalovirus elevates levels of the cellular protein p53 in infected fibroblasts .
Eleven genes were identified whose expression changed significantly in response to carcinogen treatment .
Glucose deprivation enhanced death receptor - triggered formation of death - inducing signaling complex and early processing of procaspase - 8 .
Mice with EC - specific deletion of Dicer , a key enzyme for generating miRNAs , display defective postnatal angiogenesis .
Large amounts of cytosolic NADH were oxidized by the mitochondrial respiratory chain via the NADH shuttle , comprising anywhere from about 20 to 80 % of the total flow of reducing equivalents to oxygen in these tumors .
High - mobility group A2 protein modulates hTERT transcription to promote tumorigenesis .
In this review article , many functions of homeobox genes both at the early stem cell level as well as at the later stages of hematopoietic differentiation , and the leukemogenic effect of altered homeobox genes are discussed .
At other times , both the metastases and the primary tumor may spontaneously regress without treatment .
We investigated a prophylactically thyroidectomized MEN II A population to determine whether the highly specific and sensitive tumor marker calcitonin correlates with tumor spread .
A vascular prosthesis needs angiogenesis for endothelialization of the luminal surface , as endothelial cells have natural and permanent antithrombogenic properties .
Long - term carcinogen exposure exerts continuous pressure on key mechanisms that repair or eliminate carcinogen - damaged cells giving rise to selective failures that contribute to lung cancer .
Ectopic decorin expression up - regulates VEGF expression in mouse cerebral endothelial cells via activation of the transcription factors Sp1 , HIF1alpha , and Stat3 .
CONCLUSION : Calretinin is a very useful marker for positive identification of normal and tumor mesothelial cells in serous effusions .
We report one case of advanced gastric cancer with lung and lymph node metastases that completely responded to TS - 1 .
Monoclonal antibody targeted therapy directed against EGF - R or Her - 2 / neu , the use of anti - sense oligonucleotides and oligodeoxynucleotides , and the application of tyrosine kinase and protein C - kinase inhibitors are currently being investigated .
This low glucose utilization is in contrast to the high [ 11C ] methionine uptake and the malignancy of these tumors .
This treatment also changed the mitochondrial membrane potential in both MG - 63 and SaOS - 2 cells within 1h , caused chromatin condensation and the formation of apoptotic bodies .
Biomaterials such as Surgisis ( Cook Biotech Incorporated , West Lafayette , IN , USA ) , which are derived from natural ECM , provide the extracellular components necessary to direct the healing response , allow for the proliferation of new , healthy tissue and restore tissue integrity to the damaged site .
CONCLUSION : TEMF therapy provided a safe means for retarding tumor vascularization , growth and metastasis .
Transfection of SiHa cervical cancer cells with a plasmid expressing the TSP - 1 protein exhibited antiangiogenic activity in vitro and resulted in reduced tumor growth in severe combined immunodeficiency ( SCID ) mice , which was accompanied by a decrease in tumor vascularization and lower expressions of alpha - SMA and desmin than those in the vector controls .
Possible mechanisms involved in sensitizing cells to a p53 - dependent apoptosis pathway in spite of the ability of T antigen to bind and inactivate the transcriptional transactivating activity of p53 are discussed .
Fluorescence - activated cell sorter analysis showed that isolated tumor ECs have suppressed levels of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 as compared with ECs from normal mouse tissues .
Down syndrome critical region gene 1 ( DSCR - 1 ) short variant ( DSCR - 1s ) is an inhibitor of calcineurin / NFAT signaling encoded by exons 4 - 7 of DSCR1 .
Here , we show that NCAM - deficient beta cell tumors grew leaky blood vessels with perturbed pericyte - endothelial cell - cell interactions and deficient perivascular deposition of ECM components .
Both PLD1 - and PLD2 - mediated cell cycle distributions in stable cell lines revealed an increased fraction of cells in the S phase compared with control cells .
MMP2 and MMP9 activity were determined by zymographic assay , and MAPK activation by Western blotting analysis .
Mutations in the genes encoding the three other succinate dehydrogenase subunits ( SDHB , SDHC and SDHD ) have been identified in patients affected by familial or ' apparently sporadic ' paraganglioma and / or pheochromocytoma , an autosomal inherited cancer - susceptibility syndrome .
PURPOSE : To assess the safety and effectiveness of photodynamic therapy ( PDT ) with verteporfin for subfoveal choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) secondary to pathologic myopia ( PM ) .
Cells were treated with curcumin and examined for cell viability by MTT assay .
Two of these cell cycle inhibitors , p16 ( INK4A ) and p15 ( INK4B ) , have tumor suppressor activities and are inactivated in human cancer .
The synthesis and / or the excretion of this factor in a medium is controlled by the A gene .
Expanded polytetrafluoroethylene ( PTFE ) sheets were implanted adjacent to both superficial epigastric vascular pedicles of 63 rats distributed into 7 groups ( n = 7 ) that differed with respect to dose and timing of irradiation .
It is concluded that the observed increase in the Na + / K + ratio in ascites tumor cells is connected with their enhanced ability to synthesize lactic acid .
Modulation of invasion within such systems is ascribed to balances between promoter and suppressor pathways .
HGF constitutively produced VEGF and levels were significantly enhanced ( P less than 0 . 01 ) by stimulation with Ve and OMP from A . actinomycetemcomitans and P . gingivalis at concentrations of 10 microg / ml or higher .
Therapeutic angiogenesis : a complex problem requiring a sophisticated approach .
The results showed that the expression of full - length T antigen rendered rat embryo fibroblasts ( REF ) sensitive to 5 - FU - induced apoptosis .
CONCLUSIONS : SREBP is activated during and plays a critical role in ECs migration .
In 4 weeks after surgery , angiogenesis of test group reached to peak .
In defined medium , both oncogenic TDM are constitutively autophosphorylated and inefficiently downregulated .
SMI496 , but not a control compound , interfered with angiogenesis in vivo by reversibly inhibiting sprouting from the axial vessels .
These data indicate that dietary folate supplementation at 4x the basal dietary requirement significantly suppresses UC - associated colorectal carcinogenesis in the IL - 2 ( null ) x beta ( 2 ) m ( null ) mice .
No significant differences between the two groups were observed in tumor size , gender , age , histology , differentiation or preoperative therapy .
Furthermore , inhibition of PARP activity , but not of caspase activity , completely prevented magnolol - induced necrosis , suggesting the notion that it might be caused by depletion of intracellular ATP levels due to PARP activation .
In addition , Brk1 downregulation results in defective directional migration and invasive growth in renal cell carcinoma cells as well as in other tumor cell types .
[ ( 18 ) F ] deoxyglucose uptake correlates with glucose transporter ( GLUT - 1 ) expression , which can be regulated by hypoxia - inducible factor 1 alpha ( HIF - 1alpha ) .
According to these different functions , the role of c - Myc protein in cellular sensitivity to anti - cancer drugs is controversial .
By introducing a cDNA library derived from rat embryonic fibroblast cells , we isolated several morphologically flat revertants of rat 3Y1 cells transformed by the E6 and E7 genes of human papillomavirus type 18 ( HPV18 ) .
Blockade of angiogenesis is an important approach for cancer treatment and prevention .
Thus , supplementation with L - Carnitine as an adjuvant therapy may be promising in alleviating the systemic side - effects of chemotherapeutics .
c - MYC functions as a molecular switch to alter the response of human mammary epithelial cells to oncostatin M .
[ Prognostic significance of cellular vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression in the course of chronic myeloid leukaemia ]
The role of p53 in glucose metabolism .
Cancer metastasis : negative regulation by an invasion - suppressor complex .
p53 appears to be a nuclear transcription factor that plays a role in the control of cell proliferation , apoptosis , and the maintenance of genetic stability .
In the present study , we developed the first specific inhibitors of the pyruvate kinase isoenzyme type M2 and present evidence that these inhibitors moderately decelerate tumor cell proliferation .
The antisense oligomers complementary to the ER suppressed proliferation and transformed phenotypes of K12V cells .
AngiomiRs - - key regulators of angiogenesis .
We further support this hypothesis by providing the first evidence that TnI can act on nonendothelial as well as endothelial cells and by demonstrating that this inhibitory action is specific for the bFGF receptor on the target cells .
All markers for stimulated wounds showed increased activity relative to non - stimulated control wounds between 7 and 14 days following injury , with peak activity at 14 days .
However , MKN - 28 , MKN - 45 , MKN - 74 , and SNU16 cells did not express membrane CXCR4 .
IUGR fetuses are both hypoxic and hypoglycaemic , and have reduced insulin and insulin - like growth factor - 1 ( IGF - 1 ) , and elevated concentrations of lactate .
[ Autologous bone marrow stem cell or peripheral blood endothelial progenitor cell therapy in patients with peripheral limb ischaemia ]
The value of serum S - 100beta and interleukins as tumour markers in advanced melanoma .
Since EVT cells possess active invasion - associated genes but are nontumorigenic , our objective was to induce premalignant and then malignant phenotype into a normal EVT cell line in order to identify the molecular basis of tumor progression .
Various cellular kinases , among them members of the CK1 family , play an important role in modulating the transforming activity of SV40 , including the transforming activity of T - Ag , the major transforming protein of SV40 , itself .
Pouch vascular volume and permeability changes were studied by fractional distributions of radiotracers and were analyzed by a variety of statistical methods which explored the vascular parameters , treatment types , elapsed time , presence of the carcinogen , and histopathologic changes .
Hence , we propose that the vector system , 5xHRE / SV40 / sTie2 , might be a useful tool for down - regulating tumor angiogenesis under hypoxic condition .
Whether sex steroids affect IL - 8 secretion of normal breast tissue or breast cancer is not known .
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of doxorubicin in Hct - 116 human colon carcinoma cells in order to clarify if a time / concentration range for optimal doxorubicin - induced apoptosis exists .
In addition , the positivity rate of EphA2 was significantly higher in primary lesions with lymph node metastasis than in those without metastasis ( p = 0 . 0014 ) .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : We used rAAV2 / 5 to deliver vasostatin intratumorally or systemically in different mouse lung tumor models - - subcutaneous , orthotopic xenograft , and spontaneous metastasis lung tumor models .
A clone of NIH3T3 transformant ( H - 3 ) , obtained by transfecting genomic DNA of a human colon carcinoma cell line , contains human K - ras oncogene and yields metastatic pulmonary nodules after intravenous injection of the cells into nude mice .
Induction of TSP - 1 mRNA by TGF - beta was attenuated by c - Ski in vitro , and expression of TSP - 1 mRNA was decreased in tumors expressing c - Ski in vivo .
The medical records were reviewed independent of the staining results to determine site of tumor origin .
The expression of endostatin in situ and its maintaining time were detected by immunohistochemistry and Western Blot , respectively .
Transfection of full - length 5T4 cDNA into epithelial cells alters cell - cell contacts and cellular motility .
Since then , important progress has been made with respect to the understanding of the role of the Pten protein in the normal development of the brain as well as in the molecular pathogenesis of human gliomas .
We have previously mapped phosphorylation sites near the carboxy terminus of the E1B - 55kDa protein at Ser - 490 and Ser - 491 , which lie within casein kinase II consensus sequences .
Recent research suggests that EPCs have an important role in tumor vasculogenesis .
Our data suggest that enhanced proliferation is precipitated by an accelerated cell cycle , and decreased migration by an inability to activate CDC42 .
CONCLUSIONS : These observations suggested that several subtypes of the AQP family play a role in human breast carcinogenesis .
Investigating the causes of increased aerobic glycolysis in tumors ( Warburg Effect ) has gone in and out of fashion many times since it was first described almost a century ago .
In murine models , the latter produces a hyperproliferative response to G - CSF , confers resistance to apoptosis , and enhances cell survival .
Suppression of lung tumor growth and metastasis in mice by adeno - associated virus - mediated expression of vasostatin .
Adipose tissue layered on CAM stimulated angiogenesis .
Recently , the role of AQPs in human carcinogenesis has become an area of great interest .
In this article we have focused on a role of IL - 6 as a prognostic factor in several malignancies such as colorectal cancer , breast cancer , gastric cancer and pancreatic cancer .
The frequency of COX - 2 and PPARgamma detection was significantly increased and decreased as lesions progressed to carcinoma , respectively .
M - CSF also induced the nuclear localization of Sp1 , which was blocked by ERK inhibition .
DNA fragmentation occurred in response to anti - Fas treatment .
In addition to giving a historical perspective on HTLV - 1 and other retrovirus research , this paper discusses the origin of HTLV - 1 ; the modes of transmission and global epidemiology of HTLV - 1 infection ; the genome of HTLV - 1 and the mechanism of HTLV - 1 - induced leukemogenesis ; the role of HTLV - 1 in other diseases , and recent breakthroughs in ATL therapy .
In this study we investigated the serum VEGF level ( s - VEGF ) in patients with renal cell carcinoma ( RCC ) .
These findings confirm that cellular immunity is significantly stimulated by IL - 2 only during clinical benefit .
Invasion assay and migration assay showed that the invasion and migration of CNE1 - GL cell were higher than those of CNE1 cells ( P < 0 . 01 ) .
The mechanisms whereby RNA leukemia viruses cause lymphoid neoplasia after a long latent period have been extensively studied but are only partially understood .
In this review , we outline the known mechanisms that impair p53 itself and its immediate regulators or target genes during melanomagenesis .
However , we need to determine whether it happens in breast cancer .
Clinical significance of chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter - transcription factor II expression in human colorectal cancer .
We previously reported that a single dose of ethanol ( 1 . 4 g / kg ) , yielding a blood alcohol concentration of 100 mg / dl , significantly impairs angiogenesis in murine wounds , despite adequate levels of VEGF , suggesting direct effects of ethanol on endothelial cell signaling ( 40 ) .
Desensitization could be induced in NIH - 3T3 cells by culturing under conditions where the cells were all in the exponential growth phase , or by a 12 h exposure to a C - kinase - activating phorbol ester .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the effect of vascular bundle implantation in autogenous bone graft on angiogenesis .
The effect of swainsonine ( active compound of locoweed and a potential anticancer drug ) on vascular development showed no differences in sinusoidal diameters at 7 weeks , but a decrease in capillary density was noted .
Mechanical regulation of the proangiogenic factor CCN1 / CYR61 gene requires the combined activities of MRTF - A and CREB - binding protein histone acetyltransferase .
Our previous studies mapped PEDF antiangiogenic and prosurvival activities to distinct epitopes .
Patients with high PLD ( > 8 . 0 ) showed higher rates of neck metastases than low PLD ( < = 8 . 0 ) ( 74 . 0 % vs 46 . 8 % , p = . 03 ) .
In the current study , the impact of VEGF expression on the response of tumors to the VEGFR2 associated tyrosine kinase inhibitor vandetanib was evaluated .
On the other hand , glutaminolysis did not inhibit glycolysis .
The induction of Ets - 1 in ECs after denudation was regulated transcriptionally , and humeral factors released from injured ECs might not be responsible .
To determine whether lipofection in other organs could be enhanced by increasing the degree of vascularization , we used a transgenic mouse model with tissue - specific angiogenesis in liver .
In addition to altering metastasis , beta - catenin levels control tumor differentiation and regulate both MAPK / Erk and PI3K / Akt signaling .
This phenotype was most likely based on decreased focal contact turnover caused by reduced expression of p130Cas , a key player in directed cell migration .
There are examples of the aberrant expression of a homeobox gene causing leukemias in humans .
Having identified the nucleolar localisation sequence in BAG - 1L , we showed that mutation of this sequence did not prevent BAG - 1L from potentiating VDR activity .
Furthermore , p53 overexpression by tumors was almost twice as common in the RSCM group as in the RSCB group .
HTPB significantly suppresses tumor metastasis partly through inhibition of integrin - beta1 / FAK / MMP / RhoA / F - actin pathways .
A perifusion system was designed in order to study glucose and glutamine metabolism by freshly harvested Ehrlich ascites tumour cells in steady state conditions .
Prognostic value of HLA - DR expression and dendritic cell infiltration in gastric cancer .
The development of carcinoma was examined in male Wistar rats ( n = 120 ) exposed to N - methyl - N ' - nitro - N - nitrosoguanidine ( MNNG ) in the drinking water ( 83 micrograms / ml ) for 16 weeks .
Additionally , the angiogenic and lymphangiogenic profiles of the tumors were characterized .
CCL16 induces dose - dependent random and directional migration of endothelial cells isolated from large vessels and liver capillaries without inducing their proliferation .
Glucocorticoid receptor - induced MAPK phosphatase - 1 ( MPK - 1 ) expression inhibits paclitaxel - associated MAPK activation and contributes to breast cancer cell survival .
Moreover , the M2 - PK - binding peptide aptamers also reduced the proliferation rate of human U - 2 OS osteosarcoma cells .
Presymposium and postsymposium tests were administered , and respondent answers were compared between pediatric dentists and endodontists .
METHODS : Four hundred eighty - four consecutive eyes of 446 patients treated with PDT from January 1 , 2001 , to June 30 , 2002 , were identified from billing records .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : Fifteen patients with MEN II A ( aged 4 - 24 years ) who had undergone prophylactic thyroidectomy since 1990 were included in the study .
Effect of platelet - rich plasma and fibrin glue on healing of critical - size calvarial bone defects .
These data also suggest that uPA and PAI - 1 may co - operate in the migratory process by respectively facilitating the attachment to , and subsequent detachment from , vitronectin in the extracellular matrix .
Consistently , it was found that MOG rapidly decreased the intracellular glutathione ( GSH ) content in a dose - dependent manner and the significance of GSH depletion in MOG - induced apoptosis was further supported by the protective effects of tert - butylhydroquinone ( tBHQ ) and the facilitative effects of DL - buthionine ( S , R ) - sulfoximine ( BSO ) .
The insulin - conditioned RPE cell media stimulated capillary endothelial cell proliferation , an effect that was completely blocked by anti - VEGF neutralizing antibody .
Expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA increased in 33 of 41 colon tumors , and expression of nm23 - H2 mRNA was elevated in 28 of 41 colon tumors relative to that in matched normal mucosa .
Here we investigated the effects of small molecule inhibitors ( SMIs ) designed to disrupt integrin alpha2 I or beta1 I - like domain function on angiogenesis .
Conditioned media prepared from colon cells treated with an adenosine analog increased human umbilical vein endothelial cell migration .
The parameters considered are the number of platelets and their aggregability , prothrombin and partial thromboplastin times , plasma fibrinogen concentration and tumor cell procoagulant activity .
Bmi - 1 over - expression in neural stem / progenitor cells increases proliferation and neurogenesis in culture but has little effect on these functions in vivo .
Nontumorigenic , immortalized keratinocytes cell line ( 3PC ) , papilloma ( MT1 / 2 ) , and squamous cell carcinoma ( Ca3 / 7 ) cell lines were initially used to study the cell growth inhibition by DMI .
An important role of proprotein convertases in tumorigenic processes has been suggested by various studies .
Integrin alphavbeta3 requirement for sustained mitogen - activated protein kinase activity during angiogenesis .
The induction of elevated p53 levels was determined not to be due to virus - receptor interactions or HCMV late events .
Immunohistochemistry revealed that the Hedgehog receptor Patched was localized to the tumor stroma and that B16F0 cells expressed Shh peptide .
There was a significant positive relationship between PAI - 1 levels and N - stage ( p = < 0 . 05 ) , presence of nodal metastases ( p = < 0 . 05 ) , stage grouping ( p = < 0 . 01 ) and extent of disease ( p = < 0 . 05 ) in the total group and the SCC subgroup , but not adenocarcinoma .
Here we studied the effects of cell morphology on the migration of bovine aortic ECs by culturing cells on micropatterned strips of collagen matrix ( 60 - , 30 - , and 15 - microm wide ) .
Moreover , SMI496 caused cell retraction and cytoskeletal collapse of endothelial cells as well as delayed endothelial cell wound healing .
Studies on the inactivation of these properties of EGF by specific cleavage of the molecule with CNBr or proteases suggest that an intact loop composed in part by amino acid residues 20 to 31 is essential for at least some functions .
3 - BrPA ( 3 - bromopyruvate ) is an alkylating agent with anti - tumoral activity on hepatocellular carcinoma .
In the present study a DNA probe derived from cellular DNA sequences adjacent to the previously characterized HBV insert was used to analyze a set of 19 matched normal liver and HBV - positive hepatoma samples obtained from the same region of China , near Shanghai .
In this study , we investigated whether the nuclear transcription factor NF - kappaB , implicated in PC metastasis , is involved in transcriptional regulation and activation of BMP - 2 or BMP - 4 / Smad signaling in PC cells .
PURPOSE : Members of the transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - beta superfamily play critical roles in regulation of various cellular functions .
Addition of c - erbB2 to a multivariate Cox model that contained menopausal status , tumor size , nuclear grade , and treatment as covariates did not affect the significance of the model for DSF or OAS , whereas addition of the first - order interaction between c - erbB2 and tamoxifen was statistically significant both for DFS and OAS .
Using a Matrigel plug - based model , in vivo angiogenesis was restricted with STX243 and STX140 ( 50 and 72 % , respectively , using a 10 mg kg ( - 1 ) oral dose ) , thereby showing the antiangiogenic activity of both compounds .
METHODS : Sixty - two patients ( 62 eyes ) with PM underwent PDT according to the guidelines of the Verteporfin in Photodynamic Therapy Study .
Synthetic vascular prostheses are foreign bodies , so that blood coagulation can occur on their luminal surfaces , causing graft occlusion very frequently in prostheses of small diameter .
RESULTS : In comparison with controls , intratumoral injection of Ad - mEndostatin significantly inhibited the tumor growth and metastasis , and prolonged the survival rate of mice ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
Furthermore , compared with similar fusion proteins in which uteroglobin was not used , the use of uteroglobin improved properties of solubility and stability .
Intracerebral grafting of cultured autologous skin fibroblasts into the rat striatum : an assessment of graft size and ultrastructure .
The pro - angiogenic capacities of perlecan that involve proliferative and migratory signals in response to bound growth factors will be explored , as well as the anti - angiogenic signals resulting from interactions between the C - terminal domain known as endorepellin and integrins that control adhesion of cells to the extracellular matrix .
Furthermore , our data indicate that loss of wt - p53 function in tumor cells may contribute to up - regulation of survivin and resistance to DNA - damaging agents .
The activated PI3K ( phosphoinositide 3 - kinase ) / Akt signalling pathway in LNCaP cells contributes to the phosphorylation of PFKFB2 at Ser466 and Ser483 , resulting in the constitutive activation of PFK - 2 ( 6 - phosphofructo - 2 - kinase ) activity .
Suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid ( SAHA ) has been approved as a drug to treat cutaneous T cell lymphoma , and the combination of HDACi and other agents have been actively tested in many clinical trials .
To examine this hypothesis , we used NCI - H1299 non - small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) cell line ( p53 and PTEN null cell ) and constructed an ICAM - 3 - over - expressing stable transfectant , which exhibited increased cell migration and invasion .
Moreover , in the presence of glucose , the malate - citrate cycle did not appear to play an important role in the glutaminolytic process .
Arterial gene transfer of naked DNA encoding for a secreted angiogenic cytokine , thus , represents a potential alternative to recombinant protein administration for stimulating collateral vessel development .
Correlation with clinico - pathological factors including LVI as retrieved by routine haematoxylin and eosin ( H . E . ) stained sections and the eligibility for the prediction of ALNM was assessed .
We identify here hADA3 , human homologue of the yeast transcriptional coactivator yADA3 , as a novel E6 - interacting protein and a target of E6 - induced degradation .
The authors report on a case series of 13 patients with recurrent heavily pretreated malignant glioma that was treated with the combination of bevacizumab and irinotecan .
Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) is strongly associated with the development of HCC in people chronically infected with the virus , but the mechanism of viral involvement remains unclear .
The IGF - 1 gene was transfected into male SMCs and compared with SMCs transfected with a plasmid vector ( vector control ) and nontransfected SMCs ( cell control ) .
Galpha ( 12 ) , the alpha - subunit of the G12 family of heterotrimeric G proteins is involved in the regulation of cell proliferation and neoplastic transformation .
The lack of expression correlates with a lack of detectable HLA - DR mRNA .
For patients with limb threatening ischaemia the only option for relief of rest pain or gangraena is amputation .
In contrast , we have previously reported that total nm23 messenger RNA ( mRNA ) expression is increased to similar levels in colon tumors of both high and low metastatic potential .
One of these mechanisms is NF - kappaB pathway activation which in turn may contribute to tumor formation by providing anti - apoptotic survival signals to the epithelial cells .
This was markedly suppressed upon simultaneous injection of anti - VEGF polyclonal antibodies with the supernatant .
None of the polymorphisms were associated with risk of advanced stage or histologic subtype of cervical cancer .
CONCLUSIONS : Enoxaparine Na decreased intra - abdominal adhesions , and HBO therapy had no beneficial effect on adhesions .
Recruiting a new blood supply is a rate - limiting step in tumor progression .
Emodin also induced differentiation of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells by exhibiting a morphological maturation property of large lacy nuclei surrounded by sizable flat cytoplasm and by showing a measurable production of large lipid droplets , which is a marker of mature breast cells .
The cytostatic drug doxorubicin is a well - known chemotherapeutic agent which is used in treatment of a wide variety of cancers .
Furthermore , it was shown that thiol - containing antioxidants completely blocked MOG - induced mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss and subsequent cell apoptosis , while the inhibition of apoptosis by benzyloxy - carbonyl - Val - Ala - Asp - fluoromethylketone only partially attenuated mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss , indicating that MOG - induced redox imbalance is an early event upstream to mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss and caspase - 3 activation .
Treatment with 25 mg / kg cyclopamine significantly attenuated BrdU incorporation in tumor cells threefold ( P less than 0 . 001 ) , in tumor related endothelial cells threefold ( P = 0 . 004 ) , and delayed tumor growth by 4 days .
The kinase reactions showed preference for ATP and MgCl2 instead of GTP or MnCl2 .
These data confirm the importance of tissue architecture and polarity in malignant progression .
The induction of elevated p53 levels commenced at immediate - early times of the HCMV multiplication cycle ( 6 h postinfection ) and reached maximal levels by 24 h postinfection , before most of the HCMV DNA synthesis was initiated .
Our results suggest that the selective inhibition of NF - kappaB activation by NBD peptide may provide an effective approach for the treatment of highly metastatic OSCC .
The implication of the small GTPase RhoA in TSH - mediated proliferation of FRTL - 5 rat thyroid cells has been previously demonstrated .
Dominant negative interference of transcription factor AP - 2 causes inhibition of ErbB - 3 expression and suppresses malignant cell growth .
In a multivariate analysis , N - stage and vascular grade were not found to be independent prognostic factors , since they were strongly related to each other .
METHODS : This review outlines and compares the latest development of these strategies , with emphasis on aflibercept , a novel decoy fusion protein of domain 2 of VEGFR - 1 and domain 3 of VEGFR - 2 with the Fc fragment of IgG1 .
Lactate and pyruvate , the end products of glycolysis , are highly produced by cancer cells even in the presence of oxygen .
Members of the Runx and MYC families have been implicated as collaborating oncogenes .
These results show that Fas - signaling exerted a suppressive effect on p53 levels and on downstream effectors of receptor tyrosine kinase signal transduction , thereby ensuring cell death .
METHODS : We used ribonuclease protection assays to analyze human colon tumors for the level of nm23 - H1 ( 43 samples ) and nm23 - H2 ( 41 samples ) transcript ( mRNA ) expression and the presence of mutations that could inactivate potential suppressor function .
In vivo p53 response and immune reaction underlie highly effective low - dose radiotherapy in follicular lymphoma .
Overexpression of SEMA3B and SEMA3F reduced focal adhesion kinase phosphorylation and matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and matrix metalloproteinase - 9 expression in ovarian cancer cells .
To elucidate the role of free radicals and leukocytes in MTX - induced oxidative organ damage and the putative protective effect of L - carnitine ( L - Car ) , Wistar albino rats were administered a single dose of MTX ( 20 mg / kg ) followed by either saline or L - Car ( 500 mg / kg ) for 5 days .
Our results reveal an aspect of the precise molecular mechanisms of some breast cancers , in which full invasiveness is not acquired just by intracellular alterations of cancer cells , but extracellular factors from microenvironments may also be necessary .
Furthermore , TGF - beta RII mutations in RER + tumors have been associated with decreased TGF - beta RII mRNA levels .
Recent evidence has suggested a role for inflammation in seizure disorders .
RESULTS : The bone grafts were found revascularization in 3 days after surgery in the test group , whereas at 2 weeks in the control group .
MPs also play a role in tumor angiogenesis .
alpha - MSH also induces activation of NF - kappa B but does not modulate DNA binding on costimulation with IL - 1 beta .
After 1 week of treatment , before an increase in capillary length density , VEGF mRNA increased greater than 2 - fold and then declined to control levels after 3 weeks of treatment .
Different antiangiogenic therapeutics have been developed to improve tumor control through vascular - targeting agents ( VTA ) .
Administration of 317615 x 2HCl along with carboplatin to animals bearing the SKOV - 3 tumor produced a 1 . 8 - fold increase in lifespan compared with carboplatin alone .
METHODS AND RESULTS : Quiescent VEGFR2 displays endosomal localization and colocalization with the Rab5a GTPase , an early endosome fusion regulator .
The pro - oncogenic transcription factor STAT3 is constitutively activated in a wide variety of tumours that often become addicted to its activity , but no unifying view of a core function determining this widespread STAT3 - dependence has yet emerged .
Angiogenesis in platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule - 1 - null mice .
The results demonstrated that levels of the c - jun mRNA and protein were unchanged in the revertants when compared to the transformed parental cells , and ectopic overexpression of c - jun failed to retransform the revertants .
Angiogenesis is a fundamental process to normal and abnormal tissue growth and repair , which consists of recruiting endothelial cells toward an angiogenic stimulus .
We found that the severity of vascular abnormalities correlated positively with the severity of histologic epithelial lesions ; this finding is consistent with colposcopic results .
Antiangiogenic and antitumor effects of a protein kinase Cbeta inhibitor in human breast cancer and ovarian cancer xenografts .
Understanding molecular mechanisms regulating angiogenesis may lead to novel therapies for ischemic disorders .
It is suggested that inhibition of tumour angiogenesis by vitamin E may be an additional mechanism for the anticancer action of vitamin E .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and Angiopoietin 1 ( Ang1 ) are both potent proangiogenic factors , but , whereas VEGF causes vascular permeability , Ang1 stabilizes blood vessels and protects them from VEGF - induced plasma leakage .
Each consists of repetitive cycles of interaction with adjacent extracellular matrix components by mediating cellular adhesion , matrix dissolution , and cellular motility to achieve metastasis of cancer cells or neovascularization of tumors .
RESULTS : The average fibrinogen levels in patients with pancreatic carcinoma , ( 476 . 21 + / - 142 . 05 ) mg / dl , were significantly higher than in patients with cholangiolithiasis , ( 403 . 28 + / - 126 . 41 ) mg / dl ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Following i . v . infusion with [ 13C ] alanine , [ 13C ] lactate and glutamate , evidence of oxidation via the TCA cycle , were observed in H4 tumors .
We hypothesized that activation of store - operated Ca2 + channels ( SOCs ) is sufficient to promote cell shape change necessary for these processes .
In addition to well established functions to block cell proliferation , recent studies have revealed a role for p53 in the regulation of pathways involved in glucose metabolism .
The inhibition of migration by HKa is reversed by antibodies to urokinase - type plasminogen activator receptor .
The HDAC inhibition of HTPB was confirmed using HDAC activity assay .
HKa and D5 reduce the localization of paxillin to the focal adhesions after S1P and VEGF stimulation .
Under conditions mimicking the injection environment , the lipoplex - serum interaction was strongly dependent on helper lipid and ionic strength : lipoplexes prepared in 150 mM NaCl or lipoplexes with high ( greater than 33 mol % ) cholesterol were found to aggregate immediately .
Lewis lung carcinomas in mice by up to 65 % .
Strikingly , 5 of 6 familial CCMs showed PTEN promoter methylation ( 83 . 3 % ) , which was significantly higher than in sporadic cases ( 9 . 4 % ; P < 0 . 001 ) .
We have provided convincing preclinical evidence that HTPB is a potent HDAC targeted inhibitor and is thus a promising candidate for lung cancer chemotherapy .
In the present study we examined the possibility that the revertant phenotype resulted from mutations that altered the expression or activities of the c - jun or junB proto - oncogenes .
We show that transgenic expression of CDKs in the embryonic oral ectoderm is specifically retained in undifferentiated cells from the pars intermedia of the adenohypophysis .
Gene therapy for gliomas : p53 and E2F - 1 proteins and the target of apoptosis .
In the present study this region is shown to contain a gene encoding a protein of 40 kilodaltons in HTLV - I and 37 kilodaltons in HTLV - II .
Mammographic patterns of microcalcifications depend on their physiopathological process ( necrosis , secretion ) , and the shape of clusters ( round , triangular ) typifies their anatomical site of origin ( lobular , ductal ) .
Deletion of Tip30 leads to rapid immortalization of murine mammary epithelial cells and ductal hyperplasia in the mammary gland .
Nuclear factor - kappaB ( NF - kappaB ) activation contributes to the development of metastasis , thus leading to a poor prognosis in many cancers , including OSCC .
Glucose decreased the rate of glutamine utilization by 34 % .
With this retrovirus , LMP1 was shown to stimulate the proliferation of primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts ( MEF cells ) .
Rat - 1 cells which had been transformed with the activated Ha - ras - 1 gene from human EJ bladder carcinoma cells were fused with diploid embryonic rat fibroblasts .
BACKGROUND : We suggest that surgical extirpation of primary breast cancer among other effects accelerates relapse for some premenopausal node - positive patients .
Increased urokinase plasminogen activator ( uPA ) levels are increased in a number of malignancies and have been correlated with decreased disease - free interval and decreased overall survival .
Combination of ATX expression with ras transformation produced cells with greatly amplified tumorigenesis and metastatic potential compared to ras - transformed controls .
The AAE and the AAPD are positioned to begin preparation of best practice guidelines that share common language and treatment recommendations for pulp therapies performed by both specialties .
There is a crucial need to identify parameters that can predict a tendancy to metastatic spread to allow better prognostic evaluation and therapeutic approach .
To begin to explain the morphology of Ras - plus TEL - expressing cells , we demonstrated that the endogenous matrix metalloproteinase stromelysin - 1 was repressed by TEL .
BACKGROUND : Endostatin , a C - terminal fragment of collagen XVIII , is an endogenous angiogenesis inhibitor .
These findings suggest that poorly vascularized neuroblastomas become immature and maintain a more aggressive phenotype , which possibly could involve a sustained stabilization and activation of HIF - 2alpha .
13C and 1H nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( NMR ) was used to investigate the metabolism of L - lactate and D - glucose in C6 glioma cells .
Highly metastatic GSAS / N3 and N5 cells showed an enhanced NF - kappaB activity , thus contributing to increased migration , invasion , and a poor prognosis compared with the parent cells .
Several members were detected in insulinoma cell lines and rat islets and expression levels positively correlated with insulin abundance , particularly for p24delta1 and p24beta1 .
Thus , our results from differential proteome analysis presented here report for the first time a role for SET in Galpha ( 12 ) - mediated signaling pathways and a role for Galpha ( 12 ) in the regulation of the leukemia - associated SET - protein expression .
Immunotargeting using an anti - IGF - IR neutralizing antibody on human fetal lung explants demonstrated a significant blockade of IGF - IR signaling .
TUNEL data are reported as percentage apoptotic cells .
Immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated that Fas associated with c - erbB2 and c - met in untreated cells .
FAS - 1377 G / A polymorphism and the risk of lymph node metastasis in cervical cancer .
Inhibition of either PARP or caspase activity blocked magnolol - induced apoptosis , supporting the involvement of the caspases and PARP .
An extensive array of compounds is currently in preclinical development , with many now entering the clinic and / or achieving approval from the US Food and Drug Administration .
Recent studies using avian retrovirus - mediated introduction of oncogenes into a small subset of somatic mammary cells suggest that polyoma middle T antigen ( PyMT ) may also preferentially transform stem / progenitor cells .
For this reason , formalin - fixed , paraffin - embedded specimens from 130 patients with squamous cell lung carcinomas were analyzed by immunohistochemistry .
Hypoxia - inducible factor 1 activation by aerobic glycolysis implicates the Warburg effect in carcinogenesis .
Since the vessels of normal non - neoplastic human tissues , e . g . of intestine or lymphatic organs , have few somatostatin receptors , the increased somatostatin receptor expression in peritumoral vessels observed in this study may be linked to the neoplastic process itself .
Increased MP activity has been correlated with the metastatic potential of many cancers , including breast cancer .
Paclitaxel treatment resulted in MAPK activation and apoptosis of MDA - MB - 231 breast cancer cells , and both processes were inhibited by Dex pretreatment .
They are important components of the growth regulatory pathways in normal cells .
Knowledge of 14 - 3 - 3zeta and beta - catenin expression and clinical significance in the same tumor tissues is limited .
Finally , in human umbilical cord blood cells , we show that endothelial precursors make up only approximately 1 in 10 ( 7 ) mononuclear cells but are highly enriched in the CD133 + cell population .
Inhibition studies showed that adhesion of fibroblasts was mediated by several beta1 integrin receptors independent of the RGD and ECD recognition motif .
The viral insert mapped to chromosome 17p11 . 2 - 12 , and cellular sequences were duplicated at the site of viral integration .
Taken together , these results showed that , in addition to the MAPK pathway previously reported being a downstream target of stimulated Grm1 , AKT2 is another downstream target in Grm1 mediated melanocyte transformation .
The transforming growth factor beta ( TGFbeta ) family has critical roles in the regulation of fertility .
Additionally , bolus ( 3h ) doxorubicin incubation led to phosphorylation of p53 at serine 392 , induction of p21 , G2 arrest and increase of proapoptotic protein Bax .
We investigated the roles of the prostaglandin synthases cyclooxygenase ( COX ) I and COX - II in angiogenesis and progesterone production in the newly formed CL , using inhibitors of the COX enzymes and the gonadotropin - induced pseudopregnant rat as a model .
Furthermore , ARD1 interacted physically with and acetylated the AR protein in vivo and in vitro .
Bovine papillomavirus E7 transformation function correlates with cellular p600 protein binding .
PTTG - induced galectin - 1 transactivation and expression were mediated by c - Myc , and both inductions were suppressed by c - Myc RNAi cotranfection .
Clusters of Glut - 4 - positive granule were observed in cells in six of the tumors .
NO is synthesized through three isoforms of NO synthase ( NOS ) .
Levels of RNA for tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases ( TIMP - 1 , TIMP - 2 ) were relatively constant , suggesting independent regulation of type IV collagenases and their inhibitors .
ADAM - 9 is expressed in human melanoma at the tumor - stroma border where direct or indirect interactions between tumor cells and fibroblasts occur .
The efficacy of the approach may be critically dependent on the intrinsic susceptibility to apoptosis of different tumors .
[ Role of the tumor suppressor ARF in oncogenesis ]
Induction of this DNA - binding activity was accompanied by tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat3 and correlated with Src transformation .
RESULTS : 89 . 5 % ( n = 238 ) of NSCLC revealed LDH5 expression whereas LDH5 expression was not detected in non neoplastic lung tissues ( n = 34 ) ( p < 0 . 0001 ) .
In the face fo the fatal outcome , new approaches to the therapy have been established .
The current data also suggest that administration of antiangiogenic reagents can prevent progression of pulmonary metastasis in osteosarcoma postoperatively .
Cells stably transformed by the Src oncogene tyrosine kinase were examined for STAT protein activation .
Multivariate analysis showed that this profile was independently the most significant prognostic factor ( P = 0 . 001 ) .
The association of fibrinogen levels with clinical / pathological findings and clinical outcome was evaluated .
This phenomenon occurs at mast cell / tumor ratios which reflect the stoichiometry of host cell / tumor relationships in vivo .
Recently , overexpression of EphA2 , a member of the Eph family of receptor tyrosine kinases , has been reported in several cancers .
However , recent identification of a high - Km glucose phosphorylating activity in a range of cancer cells prompted us to characterize glucose phosphorylating enzymes of cancer cells at the molecular level .
We propose that the upregulation of the secreted FGF - BP protein during early phases of pancreas and colon cancer could make this protein a possible serum marker indicating the presence of high - risk premalignant lesions .
Angiostatin and thalidomide both inhibited tumor growth by about 55 % .
Glucose uptake and lipogenesis were severely blocked by knocking - down of PFKFB2 using siRNA ( small interfering RNA ) or by inhibition of PFK - 2 activity with LY294002 treatment .
Our objectives were to determine the safety and efficacy of rofecoxib in treating acute haemarthrosis , chronic synovitis , target joints and pain .
The mode of Ca2 + entry regulating cell shape is unknown .
Up - regulation of PFKFB2 expression was mediated by the direct binding of ligand - activated androgen receptor to the PFKFB2 promoter .
Associations with cancer risk were estimated using two - sided logistic regression .
In addition to having a direct effect on tumor cells , vitamins such as alpha - tocopheryl succinate and beta - carotene enhance the effect of other agents that induce differentiation in tumor cells .
Here we show that angiogenesis is severely impaired in PSMA - null animals and that this angiogenic defect occurs at the level of endothelial cell invasion through the extracellular matrix barrier .
bFGF was loaded into the heparin functionalized ( PLGA - heparin ) microspheres by a simple dipping method .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and its receptors are key regulators of the process of angiogenesis , which makes them attractive therapeutic targets .
This desensitization was without effect upon the concentration causing half - maximal effect ( EC50 ) , dissociation constant ( Kd ) or number of PGF2 alpha receptors .
To our knowledge , this is the first study to evaluate the effects of 2ME2 in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
However , it is not sufficient for the immortalization of MEF , and MEF - LMP1 ( TRADD ) cells eventually enter growth arrest .
VEGF is upregulated after hypoxic injury to the brain , which can occur during cerebral ischemia or high - altitude edema , and has been implicated in the blood - brain barrier breakdown associated with these conditions .
The Akt / mTOR pathway assures the synthesis of HIF - 1alpha protein in a glucose - and reoxygenation - dependent manner in irradiated tumors .
We hypothesized that IGF - 1 - transfected smooth muscle cells ( SMCs ) would enhance cell survival and improve engraftment after cell transplantation .
In in vivo experiments , the metastasis and survival of tumor - engrafted mice were monitored .
Moreover , we suppose that knowledge about heterogeneity between primary and metastatic tumor might help to understand mechanisms of oral cancer progression .
We further investigated the mechanism of anticancer activity by betulin , using HeLa cells as an experimental model .
PLD activity has been shown to be significantly elevated in many tumours and transformed cells , suggesting the possibility that PLD might be involved in tumorigenesis .
Adenovirus 5 E1A enhances histone deacetylase inhibitors - induced apoptosis through Egr - 1 - mediated Bim upregulation .
In contrast , tunicamycin had little effect on the viability and MTT responses of the cells used .
None of the test drugs demonstrated significant anti - edema activity .
Coexpression of keratin and vimentin was found in approximately 20 % of the tumors regardless of menopausal status .
The mechanism underlying this VEGF - associated angiogenesis may be an increase in stretch due to enhanced diastolic filling .
There is comparatively less evidence to support the use of other treatment modalities for relief of symptoms in intermittent claudication , but there is considerable interest in therapeutic angiogenesis to promote new vessel formation and enhance collateralisation of the lower limb using recombinant growth factor proteins or gene transfer strategies .
Furthermore , LDH5 correlates positively with the prognostic marker TKTL1 .
When wound healing assay was used to assess in vitro tumor cell migration , hypoxia conditioning for 1 h enhanced B16F10 cell migration .
We found that GSE could directly inhibit the kinase activity of purified VEGF receptor 2 , a novel activity of GSE that has not been characterized .
Tissue integration and implant characteristics of various biomaterials commonly used for inguinal hernia repair have not been studied extensively .
In tissues with a normally high metabolic turnover such as skeletal and cardiac muscle , even mild ischemia causes hypoxia , acidosis , and depressed function ( contractility ) and eventually threatens myocyte viability and organ function .
Experimental Design : Human umbilical vein and dermal microvascular endothelial cells were infected with replication - deficient adenoviruses encoding survivin ( pAd - Survivin ) , green fluorescent protein ( pAd - GFP ) , or a phosphorylation - defective survivin Thr ( 34 ) - - > Ala ( pAd - T34A ) dominant negative mutant .
In acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) with t ( 7 ; 11 ) translocation , the HOX A9 gene is rearranged .
CONCLUSIONS : We reported here for the first time the involvement of PTEN promoter methylation in CCMs , particularly in familial CCMs , suggesting this epigenetic alteration as a potential pathomechanism of CCMs .
The results suggest that somatostatin and somatostatin receptors may play a regulatory role for hemodynamic tumor - host interactions , possibly involving tumor stroma generation , tumor environment , angiogenesis and , particularly , vascular drainage of poorly differentiated neoplasms .
There is a significant increase in the number of apoptotic hepatocytes when they are cultured in the conditioned media .
Investigating the causes of low birth weight in contrasting ovine paradigms .
In summary , these results suggest that ADAM - 9 expression plays an important role in mediating cell - cell contacts between fibroblasts and melanoma cells and that these interactions contribute to proteolytic activities required during invasion of melanoma cells .
CONCLUSION : The transfection of LMP1 can increase the expression of MMP - 9 in CNE1 cells .
Mutants of TEL that removed a binding site for the mSin3A corepressor but retained the ETS domain failed to repress stromelysin - 1 .
The nature of these substrates was confirmed by proteolysis techniques .
Bmi - 1 transgenic mice were born with enlarged lateral ventricles and a minority developed idiopathic hydrocephalus as adults , but none of the transgenic mice formed detectable CNS tumors , even when aged .
Moreover , this study is the first in vivo report of the radiation - induced p53 apoptotic response in patients and suggests that this apoptotic response is not immunologically silent .
Molecular biology of cervical cancer and its precursors .
We conclude that the transforming properties of the activated Ha - ras gene in Rat - 1 cells can be suppressed at the post - translational level by the presence of the genome from diploid embryonic rat fibroblasts but additional controls of expression of the transforming gene are likely to exist .
VM is critical for a tumor blood supply and is asscociated with aggressive features and metastasis .
Topical and systemic estrogen treatments have shown an increased rate of healing by reducing inflammation , however the underlying mechanisms are little understood .
Two of 12 cell lines formed xenografts in mice .
These results suggest the possibility that BV may exert an anti - tumor effect on human lung cancer .
Lactate concentrations were significantly higher ( P less than 0 . 001 ) at baseline and all time periods of the glucose tolerance test in dogs with lymphoma when compared with controls .
Rat embryonic lung explant studies further validated the importance of the IGF - IGF - IR system for lung vascular development .
Experimental results and theoretical calculations suggest that in glucose - containing medium the Na + transport increases from 0 . 75 to 1 . 78 pmol / hour per cell .
While the response to most treatments was not affected by the VHL gene status , glucose deprivation was found to be much more cytotoxic for RCC cells lacking VHL gene function than for wtVHL - expressing cells .
FGFR1 and FGFR2 were present on explants .
The average survival time of the RM - 9 - IL12 mice was longer than 53 days , whereas the mean survival for mice transplanted with control RM - 9 cells was only 16 days .
No harmful side effects were attributed to TEMF .
Fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 - positive fibroblasts provide a suitable microenvironment for tumor development and progression in esophageal carcinoma .
RESULTS : Bevacizumab treatment was followed by reductions in retinal hemorrhage , exudation , and edema .
To determine how p18 and p27 genetically interact with Men1 , the tumor suppressor gene mutated in familial MEN1 , we characterized p18 - Men1 and p27 - Men1 double mutant mice .
Surprisingly , however , further phosphorylation of this protein on addition of phorbol ester was greatly reduced .
Attenuation of NF - kappaB activation by TSC phenolic fraction was associated with significant decrease of intracellular PKC substrate phosphorylation in BPDE treated cells .
9E3 / CEF4 was slightly mitogenic for CEF , causing a doubling of [ 3H ] thymidine uptake when added to serum - starved CEF . 9E3 / CEF4 was found associated not only with the cell and in the culture medium of Rous sarcoma virus - transformed CEF but also with the extracellular matrix .
Manipulation of Rab7a GTPase activity associated with late endosomes using overexpression of wild - type or mutant proteins blocks activated VEGFR2 trafficking and degradation .
In contrast , pellets from the CLA - fed animals contained fewer infiltrating cells , which formed limited branching cellular networks , the majority of which had collapsed lumen and no RBCs .
In these transformants , mitogen depletion elicited an increase in the Rb level comparable to that in normal C2 cells ; wt SVLT , however , promoted the phosphorylation of a large part of the induced Rb .
This resulted in beta tumor cell metastases in distant organs and local lymph nodes , demonstrating a role for pericytes in limiting tumor cell metastasis .
It has long been noted , however , that hair follicle cycling is associated with prominent changes in skin perfusion , that the epithelial hair bulbs of anagen follicles display angiogenic properties , and that the follicular dermal papilla can produce angiogenic factors .
Thus , our results suggest that sustained FOXO3a activation can enhance hyperactivation of the PI3K / Akt pathway .
METHODS : Six patients with lymphoma twice underwent [ 18F ] FDG - PET imaging : once after fasting overnight and once during euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp .
OBJECTIVE : Dependence on glycolysis is a hallmark of malignant tumors .
Moreover , in vitro experiments demonstrated a direct effect of ethanol on the response to hypoxia in endothelial cells , as ethanol diminished nuclear hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha protein levels .
Our in vivo metastasis mouse model is useful for studying the efficacy of therapeutic regimes of ovarian cancer .
It is concluded that its action is targeted to tumor neovasculature and the mechanism is inhibition of tumor angiogenesis .
PURPOSE : Pigment epithelial - derived factor ( PEDF ) is a potent angiogenesis inhibitor with multiple other functions , some of which enhance tumor growth .
Some potentially promising prognostic , diagnostic , and therapeutic modalities for tumor angiogenesis and metastatic disease are also discussed .
Concentrations achieved in vivo in tumors lead to single - agent anti - tumor activity at non - toxic doses .
This study was aimed to determine the minimal fragment of PEDF , which maintains antiangiogenic and antitumor efficacy .
Here we provide an overview of the current understanding of the Warburg effect upon tumor cell growth and survival , and discussion on the potential metabolic targets for cancer therapy .
These results suggest that the role of WT1 is different depending on the type of leukemia cell in which it is expressed .
Troponin I ( TnI ) is a novel cartilage - derived angiogenesis inhibitor , first demonstrated by Moses et al .
By specifically and potently inhibiting tumor Hsp90 , PU24FCl exhibits wide - ranging anti - cancer activities that occur at similar doses in all tested tumor types .
The fact that viral or other adjunctive vectors were not required further suggests that secreted gene products may have potential therapeutic utility even when the number of successfully transfected cells remains low .
New functions of epidermal growth factor : stimulation of capillary endothelial cell migration and matrix dependent proliferation .
The percentage of cell apoptosis increased with the enhancing of concentration .
Radiation retinopathy is treatable with anti - vascular endothelial growth factor bevacizumab ( Avastin ) .
The methylation status was correlated to the clinical manifestations and to PTEN expression , which was analyzed by both Western blot and immunohistochemistry .
A selective marker of normal and neoplastic mesothelial cells in serous effusions .
The UV - irradiated cells demonstrated enhanced tumorigenicity and metastatic potential in nude mice .
Ploidy analysis was carried out on 39 EOGCs and immunohistochemistry of CDC4 / FBXW7 and its substrates c - myc , c - jun , Notch and cyclin E was performed on 204 gastric carcinomas using tissue microarrays ( TMAs ) .
FA induced GR - mediated transcription in Ca3 / 7 cells transfected with a luciferase reporter gene under the control of glucocorticoid response element ( GRE ) , but DMI alone did not affect GR - mediated transcription .
Role of osteopontin in adhesion , migration , cell survival and bone remodeling .
Since Akt phosphorylates Chk1 - Ser ( 280 ) , the effect of Erbb2 on phosphatidyl inositol - 3 - kinase ( PI3K ) / Akt signaling during UV - induced cell cycle arrest was determined .
They defined also the predominant origin of new vessels from venules and capillaries , and enabled the evolution of proliferating vessels into arterioles and venules to be documented .
In the present study , the authors used molecular techniques to analyze the clonal composition of five cases of concurrent adenocarcinomas of the endometrium and ovary that were clinicopathologically diagnosed as synchronous primary tumors .
The study shows that clear cell tumors are able to up - regulate angiogenic growth factor receptors more efficiently than chromophil ( papillary ) , that clear cell tumors can use pathways independent of VHL to regulate angiogenesis , and that this combined regulation may account for their more aggressive phenotype , which suggests that targeting VEGFR1 ( flt - l ) may be particularly effective in these tumor types .
Here we analyzed LDH5 protein expression in a well characterized large cohort of primary lung cancers in correlation to clinico - pathological data and its possible impact on patient survival .
The angiogenic action of thrombin has been shown to be mediated by activation of the thrombin receptor .
In contrast , none of the patients with JEB had elevated levels of bFGF .
Glutamine and glucose as energy substrates for Ehrlich ascites tumour cells .
FPR and the piperazine derivatives inhibited the activation of this enzyme .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is one of the most critical factors that induce angiogenesis and has thus become an attractive target for antiangiogenesis treatment .
Oncogenic epidermal growth factor receptor mutants with tandem duplication : gene structure and effects on receptor function .
RESULTS : The percentage of patients being bone metastases free at 12 mo was 60 % in the zoledronic acid and 10 % in the control group ( p less than 0 . 0005 ) , while the percentages at 18 mo were 20 % and 5 % respectively ( p = 0 . 0002 ) .
Leukemic K562 , U937 and HL60 cells expressed Glut - 1 transporter protein .
Tissue reaction of TET epithelial scaffolds immersed with the medium was evaluated on the chick embryo chorioallantoic membrane .
The optimal duration of chemotherapy in patients with early and metastatic colorectal cancer is unclear .
These data provide evidence that adenosine could modulate the migration of colon cancer cells by an HIF - 1alpha / VEGF / IL - 8 - dependent mechanism and that caffeine has the potential to inhibit colon cancer cell growth .
To understand the molecular basis of carcinogenesis from the beginning to the full acquirement of malignancy , factors concerned with carcinogenesis were categorized into three groups : those guarding and stabilizing genomes , those regulating cell proliferation , and those conferring resistance to various micro - environmental stresses .
Recent in vitro and in vivo evidence suggest that they may also have direct antitumor effects via induction of apoptosis , inhibition of the invasive potential of tumor cell lines in vitro , inhibition of angiogenesis , and reduction in tumor growth indirectly via effects on accessory cells .
These results suggest that desensitization of certain agonist - induced inositol phospholipid responses in ras - transformed cells is a consequence of increased cell proliferation and associated amplification in C - kinase activity and is an indirect consequence of transformation by ras .
Neuroblastoma and hepatocyte coculture conditioned media alter apoptosis .
Analysis of two independent lines with expression in the fetal and adult CNS demonstrated that transgenic neural stem cells formed larger colonies , more self - renewing divisions , and more neurons in culture .
Pretreatment with aspirin and nimesulide inhibited EC9706 and EC109 cell growth in a time and dose - dependent manner , accompanied with a decrease of prostaglandin E2 production .
At the cellular level many actions of thrombin can contribute to activation of angiogenesis : ( 1 ) .
We sought to test whether p53 could behave in a manner similar to known genes in a biological test system , and we demonstrate here that p53 can cooperate with the activated Ha - ras oncogene to transform normal embryonic cells .
Surprisingly , despite the expression of KSHV latent genes in the vast majority of tumor cells , specifically targeting only the few vGPCR - expressing cells in established tumors resulted in tumor regression .
Here we demonstrated that all retinal MCs express CX3C chemokine receptor 1 ( CX3CR1 ) and that homozygosity for the CX3CR1 M280 allele , which is associated with impaired cell migration , increases the risk of AMD .
Despite convincing evidence of its efficacy , little is known about the mechanism of action of TnI as an anti - proliferative and anti - angiogenic agent .
No CDC4 / FBXW7 mutations were found and loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 did not correlate with ploidy status .
However , the mechanism by which Notch oncoproteins ( generically termed here as N ( ic ) ) induce neoplastic transformation is not known .
Tumours from younger patients had a higher grade of angiogenesis ( P = 0 . 05 ) .
The expression of the transfected oncogenes in this cell line was examined in comparison with the erythrophoroma cells by Western and Northern blot analyses .
Given the dominant role of p21 in p53 cell cycle control , we crossed Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) mice onto a p21 - null background to determine whether p21 was required for maintaining chromosomal stability and delaying tumor onset .
However , current data do not conclusively show evidence of angiogenesis per se in these conditions , despite ( for example ) the presence of high levels of VEGF and Ang - 2 .
This study identifies genes expressed early in 12 - O - tetradecanoylphorbol - 13 - acetate ( TPA ) - induced skin carcinogenesis in genetically initiated Tg . AC v - Ha - ras transgenic mice .
The structural and functional development of the pulmonary system is dependent upon appropriate early vascularization of the embryonic lung .
Consistent with a role for NF - kappaB in oncogenesis are observations that inhibition of NF - kappaB alone or in combination with cancer therapies leads to tumor cell death or growth inhibition .
Activation of AP - 1 in skin was detected as early as 2 weeks following Cum - OOH or TPA exposure .
We have examined the tyrosine phosphorylation of a major cellular protein of Mr 36 , 000 in cells infected with a panel of partially transforming mutants of Rous sarcoma virus .
We demonstrate here that a transcript is initiated within the U3 region and that its presence correlates with the trans - activating activity .
Hemostatic factors play a crucial role in generating thrombotic plugs at sites of vascular damage ( atherothrombosis ) .
Our data suggest that p - XSC inhibits multiple signaling pathways in prostate cancer , likely accounting for the downstream effects on proliferation and apoptosis .
The p53 and VEGF staining statuses were coincident in only 21 % of the tumors , and no significant correlation was found between p53 and VEGF statuses .
The human T - cell leukemia viruses HTLV - I and HTLV - II are unique among the transforming retroviruses of vertebrates in their ability to transform human T cells in vitro and in their close association with human malignancies ( T - cell lymphomas and leukemia ) .
Collectively , our data newly demonstrate the antiangiogenic action of p75 ( NTR ) and open new avenues for the therapeutic use of p75 ( NTR ) inhibition to combat diabetes - induced microvascular liabilities .
The specific isoform ( s ) of PKC responsible for each of these changes has not been previously identified .
We have recently found that sodium fluoride ( NaF ) induced apoptotic cell death in tumor cell lines .
METHODS : The authors evaluated plasma endostatin ( PE ) levels using an enzyme linked immunoassay in 71 patients with acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) and 43 patients with myelodysplastic syndrome ( MDS ) , and correlated PE with various clinical parameters .
T - antigen - mediated sensitization occurred independently of retinoblastoma protein or p53 and p300 binding .
Together , the data establish that acute ethanol exposure significantly impairs angiogenesis and suggest that this effect is mediated by changes in endothelial cell responsiveness to both VEGF and hypoxia .
Substantial studies have demonstrated that PTEN can inhibit cell proliferation , migration and invasion of many cancer cells .
The anti - tumour effect of L - NAME after systemic administration was studied in a renal subcapsular CC531 adenocarcinoma model in rats .
These findings suggest that nm23 - H1 encodes for suppression of colon carcinoma metastasis .
Interaction between cellular and viral genes in the expression of the RSV - induced transformation - specific cell - surface antigen VCSA .
However , it is unclear whether sunitinib acts only through an antiangiogenic mechanism or whether it may also directly target tumor cells .
The metabolic functions of p53 resist the shift to glycolysis that is characteristically seen in cancers , and also help cells adapt to and survive limited periods of metabolic stress .
In the present study , we performed a series of molecular imaging experiments using a HIF - 1 - dependent reporter gene , 5HREp - ODD - luc , and found an essential role of the Akt / mTOR pathway .
In order to elucidate a mechanism for cancer - induced osteoclastogenesis , cells from a human breast cancer line , MDA - MB - 231 , were directly co - cultured with ST2 , MC3T3 - E1 , or with primary mouse calvarial cells .
HIF - 1alpha stabilization and the expression of VEGF isoform 165 and 121 in hypoxia were also reduced by the infection of lentiviral shRNA of TB4 in B16F10 cells .
In contrast , caspase - 3 , Fas ligand , Fas / CD95 , and PAI showed an inverse correlation to lymph node involvement .
A previous study showed that the expression of COUP - TFII enhanced invasiveness of human lung carcinoma cells .
Previous studies have shown that v - erbA and v - myb can induce the proliferation of avian erythroid cells in culture .
Taken together , these data suggest that signal - controlled activation of SRF , MRTF - A , and CBP provides a novel connection between mechanical stimuli and angiogenic gene expression .
Neurovascular effects of CD47 signaling : promotion of cell death , inflammation , and suppression of angiogenesis in brain endothelial cells in vitro .
Treatment of wild - type ( wt ) p53 ALL cells ( EU - 3 cell line ) with doxorubicin caused accumulation of p53 , resulting in dramatic down - regulation of survivin , depletion of cells in G ( 2 ) / M , and apoptosis ( increased sub - G ( 1 ) compartment ) .
Immunohistochemically stained sections of tumour were allocated a score for stain intensity and results correlated to : survival ; tumour stage ( T ) ; nodal stage ( N ) ; stage grouping ( I to IIIb ) , survival status and sex .
However , it remains unknown whether or not allogeneic transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells ( MSC ) derived from fetal membranes ( FM ) , which are generally discarded as medical waste after delivery , has therapeutic potential .
The authors concluded that , as also in the study of Northern blotting , the expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA significantly correlated inversely with lymph node metastasis in CBM , while the expression of nm23 - H2 mRNA not .
In many diseases state body loses control over angiogenesis .
The most common genetic alterations found in a wide variety of cancers are p53 tumor suppressor gene mutations .
Here we report that CCL16 activates an angiogenic program in vascular endothelial cells by activating CCR1 .
Forced expression of SEMA3B , but not SEMA3F , inhibited viability of ovarian cancer cells .
MDM2 overexpression was manually classified as > 5 % nuclear staining .
One of the clones ( clone 1510 ) contained the gene encoding latent membrane protein ( LMP ) .
Here we review the recent evidence of a simple genetic mechanism by which tumor suppressor p53 regulates mitochondrial respiration with secondary changes in glycolysis that are reminiscent of the Warburg effect .
CONCLUSION : Our results might support the idea that hyperfibrinogenemia can augment lymphatic and hematogeneous metastasis of advanced gastric cancer , which is major determinant of the prognosis in T2 gastric cancer .
As chicken embryo fibroblasts are devoid of EGF receptors , their activity is not potentiated by EGF .
Arteriogenesis : the development and growth of collateral arteries .
RESULTS : Our data showed that : tuberous sclerosis 2 ( TSC2 ) and phosphatase and tensin homolog ( PTEN ) were downregulated in most of the primary tumors , and their low expression was significantly associated with shorter disease - free and overall survival ; somatostatin receptor 2 ( SSTR2 ) was absent or very low in insulinomas compared with nonfunctioning tumors ; and expression of fibroblast growth factor 13 ( FGF13 ) gene was significantly associated with the occurrence of liver metastasis and shorter disease - free survival .
Groups 3 and 4 were vitamin E and untreated controls .
Since AP - 1 and NF - kappa B are key elements in controlling interleukin - 8 ( IL - 8 ) transcription , human fibroblasts were treated with alpha - MSH and IL - 1 beta for 24 hours , and cytokine levels in the supernatants were measured by ELISA .
In addition , the FAS - 670AG or GG genotype showed an increased incidence of node metastasis , but these findings were not statistically significant ( OR = 3 . 67 , 95 % CI = 0 . 96 - 14 . 00 , P = 0 . 059 ) .
An increase in oligomycin - independent respiration was observed in HepG2 cells treated with 3 - BrPA only when incubated in glucose - supplemented medium , indicating that 3 - BrPA induces mitochondrial proton leakage as well as blocking the electron transport system .
In vivo nuclear magnetic resonance analysis of tumor blood flow in linomide - treated animals showed localization of blood vessels almost exclusively to the periphery of the poorly vascularized tumors with a significant reduction of both vascular functionality and vasodilation .
Anti - metastasis effects of gallic acid on gastric cancer cells involves inhibition of NF - kappaB activity and downregulation of PI3K / AKT / small GTPase signals .
Cyclooxygenase - 2 inhibitor may be a promising therapeutic agent for human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma .
The additional function of Pten as a dual - specificity protein phosphatase may also play a role in glioma pathogenesis .
2 - methoxyestradiol inhibits hypoxia - inducible factor 1alpha , tumor growth , and angiogenesis and augments paclitaxel efficacy in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
In patients who transform to overt MDS or AML , hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is the only chance for cure .
Interestingly , under normal conditions muscle cells express only a approximately 5 . 5 - kb type II HK RNA transcript .
Most anti - angiogenic therapies for malignant gliomas are in Phase I / II trials and only modest efficacies are reported for monotherapies .
These findings demonstrate a requirement for VEGFR1 + haematopoietic progenitors in the regulation of metastasis , and suggest that expression patterns of fibronectin and VEGFR1 + VLA - 4 + clusters dictate organ - specific tumour spread .
In the current report , we tested the sensitivity of the c - myc - overexpressing cells ( Rat 6 / c - myc ) to two additional chemicals : 5 - azacytidine and MnSO4 .
Lewis lung carcinoma .
A nutritionally induced obesity model in transgenic mice has been used extensively to study the role of the fibrinolytic and MMP systems in the development of obesity .
One of the angiostatin isoforms , that is , angiostatin 4 . 5 ( AS4 . 5 ) , consisting of plasminogen kringle 1 to 4 and a most part of kringle 5 , is produced by autoproteolysis and present in human plasma .
Magnolol , a substance purified from the bark of Magnolia officialis , inhibits cell proliferation and induces apoptosis in a variety of cancer cells .
These findings indicate that TS and CD82 may be of great value in assessing lymph node metastasis of OSCC , and could be taken as new targets for therapy of metastatic OSCC .
The median number of therapies applied , including initial surgery , was 5 ( range 3 - 7 therapies ) .
In experimental RG1 2 . 2 glioma of rat brain , local blood flow , glucose utilization , protein synthesis , glucose and ATP content were measured by means of triple tracer autoradiography and bioluminescence technique , respectively , to determine hemodynamic and metabolic thresholds for local tumor energy failure .
RESULTS : Approximate 1 , 000 protein spots were detected on silver - stained gel by ImageMaster ( 977 + / - 113 spots in Hep3B , 1092 + / - 40 in MHCC97L , and 889 + / - 14 in MHCC97H ) .
The ectodomains and heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycan chains of syndecans can also act as receptors / co - receptors for some bacterial and viral pathogens , mediating infection .
The rate of oxygen utilization was not altered by the addition of 0 . 5 mM glutamine ; 5 mM glucose induced an inhibition of respiration .
The ACIS index , using a cutoff point defined by the median value , < or = 3 % versus > 3 % , was related to 5 - year DM rates in univariate analyses ( 32 . 6 % vs . 45 . 8 % ; P = 0 . 057 ) and MVA ( P = 0 . 06 ) .
After 21 days , the serum concentration of nitrite , capillary density and expression of HIF1alpha were determined .
None of the transformants differentiated into melanophores or iridophores or other neural crest derivatives as seen in goldfish erythrophoroma cells .
We conclude that GR - mediated MAPK inactivation contributes to cell survival and that the potential transcriptional targets of this inhibition can be identified from large scale gene array analysis .
SWAP - 70 is a phosphatidylinositol trisphosphate ( PtdIns ( 3 , 4 , 5 ) P ( 3 ) ) binding protein , which acts in F - actin rearrangement .
Ultrastructural evidence reveals that at 8 weeks the grafts are composed primarily of collagen and fibroblasts with rough endoplasmic reticulum and vesicles .
Eight randomly assigned 4 x 4 - cm2 pieces of two different meshes were fixed in the preperitoneal space with a centrally placed single suture .
It was correlated with the laboratory ( Hb , WBC and platelet counts , and the percentage of blasts ) and clinical parameters ( organomegaly , duration of CP , AP , and BC ) of disease progression .
The relationship between expression of PTEN mRNA and protein and lymph node metastasis or LOH of microsatellites was discussed .
In 11 there was complete wound healing , while in 1 there was partial response , in 1 minimal response , and in 1 a transient response .
PURPOSE : Molecular antagonists of the inhibitor of apoptosis protein survivin have shown promise as novel anticancer strategies for triggering tumor cell apoptosis , dysregulating mitotic progression , and inhibiting tumor growth in preclinical models .
Pthrp ablation in the mammary epithelium of the PyMT - MMTV breast cancer mouse model caused a delay in primary tumor initiation , inhibited tumor progression , and reduced metastasis to distal sites .
HSP27 expression was positive staining ( + ) in 20 ( 50 % ) , weak or negative staining ( - ) in 20 ( 50 % ) of total 40 cases .
Epithelial - mesenchymal transitions ( EMTs ) occur as key steps during embryonic morphogenesis , and are now implicated in the progression of primary tumors towards metastases .
In vitro studies using monolayer cultures of human tumor cell lines have shown that 2 - DG selectively inhibits energy - dependent DNA repair and cellular recovery processes in cancer cells .
Similar results have been obtained with tumor cell lines and experimental animal models .
RESULTS : Aflibercept was shown to have early clinical activity .
No alteration was detected in either of these regions in any phase of the disease .
[ Expression of Merlin protein in non - small cell lung carcinoma and the clinical significance ] .
Interleukin - 1 receptor antagonist inhibits ischaemic and excitotoxic neuronal damage in the rat .
Sorafenib inhibited the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 and its inhibition led to accumulation of LC3 - II .
In comparison with nonmetastasis Hep3B cell lines , there were 16 proteins overexpressed in MHCC97H and MHCC97L , 10 proteins underexpressed in MHCC97H and MHCC97L .
Furthermore , in comparison with native OPN , thrombin - cleaved OPN stimulated a greater rate of EC migration in vitro , which was additive to the increased migration associated with induction of alpha v beta 3 .
P18 increased the production of CD95 ligand and reduced the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 by the endothelial cells in vivo .
Only a subset of patients is suitable for laser coagulation .
A key factor in the response of cancer cells to chemotherapeutic drugs is the activation of the apoptotic pathway , a pathway that is often impaired in chemoresistant colon cancer cells .
Our data show a significant loss of Plexin C1 in metastatic melanoma compared with primary melanoma , suggesting the possibility that the Plexin C1 receptor is a tumor suppressor protein for melanoma .
The expressions of 14 - 3 - 3zeta and beta - catenin were detected by western blotting , double labeling immunofluorescence , confocal laser scanning microscopy and immunohistochemistry .
These results indicate that induction of SAPKs by hypoxia regulates HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression in head and neck carcinoma cell lines .
Genes most significantly represented in this program are those with roles in cell growth and proliferation > protein synthesis > gene expression > cell death > cell cycle .
TP catalyzes the conversion of thymidine to thymine and doxyribose - 1 - phosphate ( dR - 1 - P ) .
Taken together , the lines of evidence demonstrate that betulin triggers apoptosis of human cancer cells through the intrinsic apoptotic pathway .
Cancer 2010 .
These studies have led to a hypothesis that the supplemental intake of these vitamins may reduce the risk of cancer .
METHODS : Immunohistochemical staining of E - cadherin and alpha - and beta - catenin was performed using specimens from 143 patients with early gastric cancer .
Tsg101 is upregulated in a subset of invasive human breast cancers and its targeted overexpression in transgenic mice reveals weak oncogenic properties for mammary cancer initiation .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is known to be operative in the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy .
Treatment with pharmacological inhibitors and small interfering RNAs reveal that induction and activation of Sp1 , HIF1alpha , and Stat3 facilitate their nuclear localization and binding to their specific motifs of the VEGF promoter and induce VEGF expression via two independent pathways , DCN / EGFR / phosphoinositide - 3 kinase / AKT and DCN / EGFR / ERK1 / 2 , respectively , in DCN synthesizing MCE cells .
BAG - 1L also potentiated transactivation of known vitamin - D - responsive gene promoters , osteocalcin and 24 - hydroxylase , and enhanced VDR - dependent transcription and protein expression of the keratinocyte differentiation marker , involucrin .
3H - Cytosine arabinoside incorporation into the DNA was enhanced 1 . 33 - to 18 . 3 - fold over respective controls in 14 of 17 patients .
We show here that p10 , which arises from the use of an alternative splice donor site within intron 1 , is conserved in the mouse genome and is widely expressed in mouse tissues .
Therapeutic Electromagnetic Field ( TEMF ) and gamma irradiation on human breast cancer xenograft growth , angiogenesis and metastasis .
Since congenital neutropenia and SDS are inherited forms of bone marrow failure , G - CSF may accelerate the propensity for MDS / AML in the genetically altered stem and progenitor cells , especially in those with G - CSF receptor and ras mutations ( 82 % and 50 % of patients who transform , respectively ) .
None of the inhibitors had any effect on the weight of the superovulated ovaries or on the synthesis of progesterone by cultured luteal cells .
Transforming growth factor - beta1 enhances tumour vascularization and microvessel maturation .
In the trans - splenic hepatic metastasis model using nude mice , the augmentation of cancer metastasis was observed by the treatment of carcinostatic agents .
The various complex interactions of TP give it an essential role in cellular functioning and , hence , it is an ideal target in cancer therapy .
The latter in its parent form or in its sugar form , deoxyribose ( dR ) may play a role in the induction of angiogenesis .
GM - CSF or IL - 2 vaccines or gammaIFN decreased tumor nodules significantly ( GM - CSF 13 + / - 4 , IL - 2 14 + / - 6 vs . control 75 + / - 24 , P < 0 . 001 ) .
In the absence of both GM - CSF and fetal bovine serum ( FBS ) , 70 % of the DNA was fragmented after 3 days in culture , with a characteristic apoptotic ladder - like pattern on agarose gel electrophoresis , whereas this proportion had initially been < 5 % .
Adult mutants became sterile males due to the meiotic arrest of spermatocytes , which then died by apoptosis , followed by neoplastic proliferation of gonad somatic cells that was similar to neoplasia observed in ageing dead end ( dnd ) - knockdown males , which lack germ cells .
Knowledge of radiopathological correlations in breast diseases helps the radiologists to analyze and characterize breast lesions .
Transforming alleles of Notch direct the expression of truncated proteins that primarily consist of N ( ic ) and are not tethered to the plasma membrane .
These results indicate that ING4 has an important role in brain tumour pathogenesis .
Importantly , we show that mouse p10 is able to induce cell cycle arrest in a p53 - dependent manner .
DNA of the non - tumorigenic cell hybrids transformed Rat - 1 cells to anchorage - independent proliferation as expected for the transforming human Ha - ras gene present in the donor DNA .
We tested this using HT - 1080 , NCI , and Shac fibrosarcoma - derived cell lines and anthrax lethal toxin ( LeTx ) , a bacterial toxin that inactivates MKKs .
Serum VEGF levels were higher in patients with PDR than in those without DR ( 219 + / - 99 vs . 139 + / - 98 pg / ml , p less than 0 . 001 ) ; however , patients with poor and good CCC had similar VEGF levels .
While many genetic alterations have been identified in melanoma , the relevant molecular events that contribute to disease progression are poorly understood .
Estradiol increases IL - 8 secretion of normal human breast tissue and breast cancer in vivo .
In contrast , continuous ( 24h ) treatment with doxorubicin reduced the number of living cells with no parallel raise in the amount of dead cells .
The cyclin - dependent kinase inhibitor p21WAF1 level was found to be decreased within 12 h of ciprofloxacin treatment and disappeared completely when HTB9 cells were treated with 200 microg / ml ciprofloxacin for 24 h .
Blocking the activation of p44 / 42 mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) by the specific mitogen - induced extracellular kinase ( MEK ) inhibitor , U0126 , impaired modestly the ability of FVIIa to promote cell survival .
The disintegrin - like and cysteine - rich domains of ADAM - 9 mediate interactions between melanoma cells and fibroblasts .
Reversal of the malignant phenotype of ovarian cancer A2780 cells through transfection with wild - type PTEN gene .
The coagulative parameters including the prothrombin time , activated partial thromboplastin time , and fibrinogen levels were collected and studied retrospectively .
Immunohistochemistry assay was performed for topo I protein expression in 249 primary human colorectal cancer and 42 paired lymph node metastasis samples .
However , after they formed tumors in nude mice , every clone acquired high metastatic ability and the gene amplification increased , with elevated mRNA expression .
We also show that mouse p10 is able to inhibit foci formation and anchorage - independent growth in wild - type mouse embryonic fibroblasts , and that these antitransforming properties of mouse p10 are also p53 - dependent .
However , little is known about the function of AQPs in human breast cancer .
BACKGROUND : Angiogenesis plays an important role in maintaining adequate oxygen delivery , and nitric oxide ( NO ) is a potential regulator of angiogenesis .
As a consequence the cyclin D1 ( bcl - 1 ) gene is juxtaposed to the immunoglobulin heavy chain enhancer E mu .
However , how the tumor suppressive functions of p53 become concerted with the extracellular cues arriving at the cell surface during tissue homeostasis , remains largely unknown .
An antibody directed against PDGF receptor beta enhances the antitumor and the anti - angiogenic activities of an anti - VEGF receptor 2 antibody .
Although PTHrP is frequently expressed by breast tumors and other solid cancers , its effects on tumor progression are unclear .
After tumor implantation the animals were examined weekly during several months for the appearance of metastases .
METHODS : Thirty - eight Wistar albino rats underwent laparotomy to cause intra - abdominal adhesions by mechanical abrasion of the cecum and ethanol application .
The expression of VEGFs did not correlate with either lymphatic density or neck metastasis .
Since the HTR8 line has a limited in vitro lifespan of 12 - 15 passages , SV40 Tag - transformed cells were selected on the basis of extended lifespan .
The archival surgical pathology files of The Johns Hopkins Hospital were searched for cases of brain metastases biopsied between 1990 and 2000 .
It is hypothesized that the NO derived from inducible NOS ( iNOS ) may promote survival of ischemic tissue through angiogenesis .
( c ) 2010 American Cancer Society .
In a three - dimensional model of breast carcinogenesis , disorganized , proliferative transformed breast epithelial cells express significantly higher expression of angiogenic genes compared with their polarized , growth - arrested nonmalignant counterparts .
In addition , LMP1 plays pleiotropic roles in cell growth arrest , differentiation , and apoptosis , depending on the background of the target cells .
Thus , Fas could be involved in bovine lactoferrin - mediated inhibition of tumor development .
Scanning electron microscopy of vascular casts was used to investigate three experimental models of neovascularization .
These findings suggest that c - Myc and / or HIF - 1alpha activities are both involved in the regulation of glycolysis in breast cancers .
Finally , the inhibition of PAK activation enhances the PSMA / filamin A interaction and , thus , boosts PSMA activity .
The development of the corpus luteum ( CL ) , which involves angiogenesis , is essential for the establishment of early pregnancy .
There was a significant correlation between D2 - 40 + LVI and age , t - stage , nodal status , grading and hormonreceptor - status .
These results suggest that Ve and OMP may be crucial heat - labile and protease - sensitive components of periodontal pathogens that enhance VEGF expression .
Persistent high serum levels of endostatin ( 605 - 1740 ng / ml ; mean , 936 ng / ml ) were achieved after systemic administration of the vector to nude mice , which resulted in significant reduction of the growth rates and the volumes of JC breast carcinoma and Lewis lung carcinoma ( P less than 0 . 001 and P less than 0 . 05 , respectively ) .
Due to the importance of this pathway , it is clear that p53 disruptions may relate directly to a patient ' s prognosis .
Engrafted MSCs survived , proliferated and differentiated into myocardium - like cells .
Ki - 67 labeling index ( LI ) was calculated , based on Ki - 67 antigen immunostaining , as a proliferative marker .
METHODS : Gene silencing and over - expression techniques were used to modulate RASSF1C expression in human breast cancer cells .
We consider both the well known functions of neutrophils ( degranulation , production of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) ) and the recently shown one ( presentation of an antigene ) .
Mutation positive GIST showed higher frequency of adjacent tissue invasion , metastasis and recurrence as compared with mutation negative ones .
Molecular requirements for epithelial - mesenchymal transition during tumor progression .
Histological evaluation included amount of fibrous and fat encapsulation , connective tissue , foreign - body reaction , neovascularization , hemorrhage , necrosis , and exudate .
Expression of CDK4 or CDK2 in mouse oral cavity is retained in adult pituitary with distinct effects on tumorigenesis .
In aging females , the overexpression of Tsg101 seemed to increase the susceptibility of mammary epithelia toward malignant transformation .
The aim of this study was to characterize the distribution of hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 in normal and cancerous ovarian tissue and to examine the effects of LL - 37 on ovarian cancer cells .
An anti - IL - 8 Ab inhibited endothelial cell proliferation induced by cancer cell produced IL - 8 and tumors with low IL - 8 levels exhibited decreased angiogenesis .
Is it possible that CD47 may also negatively affect cerebral endothelial cells ?
Intimal proliferation was present in 10 of 11 irreversible PHT cases , but never observed in reversible PHT ( p less than 0 . 001 ) .
Rat tissues known to express these glucose transporters were used as controls .
The elevated serum TNF - alpha level observed following MTX treatment was depressed with L - Car .
Treatment with suberoylanilide hydroxamide ( SAHA ) , a histone deacetylase ( HDAC ) inhibitor , causes dose - dependent hTERT reporter activation , mimicking HMGA2 overexpression .
The high - oncogenic - risk HPV types associated with invasive cervical cancer produce two oncoproteins , designated E6 and E7 , which interact with endogenous cell cycle regulatory proteins , including p53 and Rb .
These results suggest that C / EBPbeta may be a marker of neoplastic transformation and also play an active role in gastric tumourigenesis by regulating COX - 2 expression .
In addition , these clones also exhibit aggressive tumorigenic phenotypes in vivo with short latency in tumor formation in both immunodeficient and syngeneic mice .
M - CSF signals through the MAPK / ERK pathway via Sp1 to induce VEGF production and induces angiogenesis in vivo .
METHODS : To evaluate antiangiogenic activity of cRGD - HL , we performed tests on endothelial cell adhesion and migration to vitronectin , tube formation , binding affinity to purified alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) integrin , and in vivo Matrigel plug assay .
The effect of wild - type or mutant survivin was investigated on capillary network stability , endothelial cell viability , and caspase activation in vitro and on kinetics of tumor growth and development of angiogenesis in a breast cancer xenograft model in vivo .
Hypoxia also increased VEGF production by SCC lines , which was inhibited by treatment with SB203580 .
PTHrP is also associated with the progression of skeletal metastases , and its dysregulated expression in advanced cancers causes malignancy - associated hypercalcemia .
Only 3 of the 13 adenocarcinomas metastatic to the serous membranes included in this study were weakly reactive , accounting for 81 % specificity .
Cell invasion and apoptosis assays were also performed .
This approach revealed a previously unrecognized transcriptional target of ELK - 1 , the human tissue plasminogen activator ( tPA ) .
These studies also show their clinicalpathological features of the cancers with human Paraffin - embedded tumor tissue samples .
Another marker being investigated in the context of vascular dysfunction and coagulopathy is the endothelial microparticle ( EMP ) .
Angiogenic activity of the aqueous humor was quantified by measuring its effect on the migration of capillary endothelial cells .
Because proteolytic degradation of the extracellular matrix is a critical component of endothelial invasion in angiogenesis , it is logical to assume that PSMA participates in matrix degradation .
These results suggest a role for HS chains of perlecan in improving graft patency by selectively promoting endothelial cell proliferation while modulating platelet adhesion .
Immunohistochemical analysis suggested a specific activation or differentiation of resident macrophages by apoptotic cells .
VEGF activates phospholipases ( PLCs ) - specifically PLCgamma1 - that are important for tubulogenesis , differentiation and DNA synthesis .
Complexes containing VEGF165 , NRP1 , and KDR were also formed in an intercellular fashion by co - culture of EC expressing KDR only , with cells expressing NRP1 only , for example , breast carcinoma cells .
Ischemic cardiac muscle is additionally vulnerable because reperfusion is essential for survival but reperfusion itself poses additional stress principally from increased production of free radicals during reoxygenation .
A novel putative tyrosine kinase receptor with oncogenic potential .
Phenolic fraction of tobacco smoke condensate potentiates benzo [ a ] pyerene diol epoxide - induced cell transformation : role of protein kinase C .
The significance of the associations was determined using Spearman correlation analysis and the chi - square test .
The activation of Na + transport is due to the exchange of protons formed via glucose conversion into lactate for Na + , i . e . , to the stimulation of the Na + / H + - antiport .
The up - regulation of Bid ( 57 . 5 % at 12 hours , P less than 0 . 0006 ) and inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor secretion ( 57 . 7 % at 24 hours , P less than 0 . 015 ; and 50 . 3 % at 48 hours , P less than 0 . 0006 ) could be partially attributed to the effects on HIF - 1alpha , because HIF - 1alpha small interfering RNAs produced similar effects .
However , it is completely absent from cells transformed by the oncogene v - myc or v - src and from cells derived from a methylcholanthrene - induced fibrosarcoma .
Melissoidesin G , a diterpenoid purified from Isodon melissoides , induces leukemic - cell apoptosis through induction of redox imbalance and exhibits synergy with other anticancer agents .
We have , therefore , measured the mRNA level of VEGF - B and VEGF - C together with their receptors by RNase protection assay ( RPA ) in 26 normal kidney samples and 45 renal cell cancers .
Postoperative progression of pulmonary metastasis in osteosarcoma .
Troponin I inhibits capillary endothelial cell proliferation by interaction with the cell ' s bFGF receptor .
In vitro studies found that exposure to Cum - OOH reduced the level of glutathione ( GSH ) in mouse epidermal cells ( JB6 P + ) and caused the induction of AP - 1 .
These results are consistent with our initial hypothesis and lead us to propose that MKK inhibition by LeTx is a broadly effective strategy for targeting neovascularization in fibrosarcomas and other similar proliferative lesions .
CONCLUSIONS : Survivin functions as a novel upstream regulator of mitochondrial - dependent apoptosis , and molecular targeting of this pathway results in anticancer activity via a dual mechanism of induction of tumor cell apoptosis and suppression of angiogenesis .
However , there were no significant differences in serum IL - 8 concentrations between NHL patients and controls ( 159 . 2 + / - 40 . 4 vs . 99 . 6 + / - 107 . 1 pg / mL ; P = 0 . 099 ) .
Bone marrow - derived mesenchymal stem cells ( BM - MSC ) have been demonstrated to be an attractive therapeutic cell source for tissue regeneration and repair .
However , fetal utilization of oxygen and glucose , on a weight basis , remain constant compared with control pregnancies .
Despite the insufficient number of experimental studies , platelet - rich plasma ( PRP ) including high amounts of growth factors is introduced to clinical use rapidly .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is a mitogen that acts exclusively on endothelial cells .
It is proposed that these proteins be called , respectively , p40xI and p37xII .
There was a significant correlation ( P = 0 . 022 ) between survivin and bcl - x expression ; survivin and bcl - x tended to correlate with overall survival ( P = 0 . 072 and 0 . 075 , respectively ) , but not with disease - free survival ( P = 0 . 19 and 0 . 18 , respectively ) .
Boyden double - membrane analysis of chemotaxis showed that 9E3 / CEF4 was chemotactic for chicken peripheral blood mononuclear cells , as well as for heterophils .
Inhibition of the mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) by rapamycin increases chemosensitivity of CaSki cells to paclitaxel .
We have constructed a recombinant adenovirus that expresses murine endostatin that is biologically active both in vitro , as determined in endothelial cell proliferation assays , and in vivo , by suppression of angiogenesis induced by vascular endothelial growth factor 165 .
Chronic wounds are a major secondary complication for many people with impaired mobility .
Organ biodistribution studies revealed that galectin - 3C localized in the liver , kidneys , and spleen but not in the heart or lungs .
Rearrangement of the c - myc gene was common in the plasmacytomas , implying a synergistic role for myc and bcl - 2 in their etiology , but was not detected in the lymphomas .
We postulate that endoscopic observation is valuable in investigating the development of gastric carcinoma , and microvascular structure and lectin binding pattern may be useful to demonstrate the mechanism of growth of gastric carcinoma .
The role of platelet - derived endothelial cell growth factor / thymidine phosphorylase in tumor behavior .
Irradiation delivered before implantation ( 900 cGy ) inhibited neovascularization significantly less than the same dose administered after implantation .
Thus , these results together suggest that sunitinib initially exerts its apoptotic effect through the inhibition of VEGFR - 2 , which , when followed by reduction of its downstream effectors , including Akt / mTOR / S6K1 , may lead to inhibition of the antiapoptotic molecule Bcl - 2 and activation of the proapoptotic molecule BAD in PC12 cells .
METHODOLOGY / PRINCIPAL FINDINGS : Examination of FOXO3a and phosphorylated - Akt ( P - Akt ) expression in breast cancer tissue microarrays showed nuclear FOXO3a was associated with lymph node positivity ( p = 0 . 052 ) , poor prognosis ( p = 0 . 014 ) , and P - Akt expression in invasive ductal carcinoma .
Semaphorins comprise a family of molecules that influence neuronal growth and guidance .
Studies were therefore performed with PECAM - 1 - null mice to further define the involvement of PECAM - 1 in blood vessel formation .
BMP expression and activation was measured by PCR and reporter assays .
P18 showed the highest IC50 and blocked angiogenesis in vivo : P23 was inactive and P14 was proangiogenic .
The resulting mechanistic model confirms previous work proposing that 2 - BE induces macrophage activation and inflammation in the liver .
Abnormal expression of beta - catenin was significantly correlated with poor differentiation and lymph node metastasis .
We therefore set out to determine whether the few cells that express vGPCR in established tumors represent an appropriate therapeutic target for the treatment of patients with preexisting Kaposi ' s sarcoma .
Small interfering ribonucleic acid specific for MCT 1 and 2 reduced expression of these isoforms in U - 87 MG cells to barely detectable levels and reduced lactate efflux by 30 % individually and 85 % in combination , with a concomitant decrease of intracellular pH by 0 . 6 units ( a fourfold increase in intracellular H ( + ) ) .
Some mice in each group were euthanized 24 hours after the end of IR .
The latent membrane protein LMP1 of Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) is often present in EBV - associated malignancies including nasopharyngeal carcinoma and Hodgkin ' s lymphoma .
Functional significance of VEGF - a in human ovarian carcinoma : role in vasculogenic mimicry .
METHODS : Preoperative plasma fibrinogen levels were retrospectively examined in 405 patients who underwent surgery for advanced gastric cancer .
We also examined cell proliferation , migration , and anti - apoptotic activity in response to stromal cell - derived factor ( SDF ) - 1alpha and evaluated SDF - 1alpha / CXCR4 signaling pathways .
In a complex organism , somatic cells are under intermittent selection pressure for the emergence of mutants that can survive environmental insults and that can grow autonomously despite adverse conditions .
TTF - 1 immunohistochemistry could focus the search for the primary tumor for patients presenting with brain metastasis as the initial manifestation .
Runx2 and MYC collaborate in lymphoma development by suppressing apoptotic and growth arrest pathways in vivo .
Here we characterized the effects of mutant CK1delta variants with impaired kinase activity on SV40 - induced cell transformation in vitro , and on SV40 - induced mammary carcinogenesis in vivo in a transgenic / bi - transgenic mouse model .
Neoplastic transformation and tumorigenesis associated with overexpression of phospholipase D isozymes in cultured murine fibroblasts .
After 24 h treatment with 80 microM magnolol in serum - containing medium , about 50 % of the cells exhibited apoptotic features and 20 % necrotic features .
The development of this technology has benefited from its application to both peripheral and coronary artery disease and results from both are reviewed here .
PLGA - heparin microspheres released out bFGF in a more sustained manner with a smaller extent of initial burst than PLGA microspheres , indicating that surface immobilized heparin controlled the release rate of bFGF .
Increased serum levels of vascular endothelial growth factor in patients with renal cell carcinoma .
Apoptosis , or programmed cell death , is thought to play a role in the dichotomous behavior of neuroblastoma .
This perspective places the report by Villani et al . that appears in this issue of the journal ( beginning on page 1222 ) in the context of recent work showing an intersection between two important developmental pathways implicated in oncogenesis : the hedgehog and insulin - like growth factor ( IGF ) pathways .
Similar methods applied to human ovarian and colon tumors confirmed endosialin expression by pericytes .
Positron emission tomography in a case of intracranial hemangiopericytoma .
Simian virus 40 large T antigen and two independent T - antigen segments sensitize cells to apoptosis following genotoxic damage .
These immortally transformed cells ( KMST - 6 ) showed no clonability in soft agar and were not tumorigenic .
Erbb2 suppresses DNA damage - induced checkpoint activation and UV - induced mouse skin tumorigenesis .
DMI inhibited cell proliferation in a time - dependent manner .
These data show that disrupting cytostructure activates the angiogenic switch even in the absence of proliferation and / or hypoxia and restoring organization of malignant clusters reduces VEGF expression and EC activation to levels found in quiescent nonmalignant epithelium .
Effects of cyclooxygenase - 2 non - selective and selective inhibitors on proliferation inhibition and apoptosis induction of esophageal squamous carcinoma cells .
However , effective HDAC inhibitors for the treatment of solid tumors remain to be developed .
The expression of ARD1 was augmented by treatment with synthetic androgen ( R1881 ) unless AR is deficient or is inhibited by AR - specific siRNA or androgen inhibitor bicalutamide ( Casodex ) .
Deletion of the proline - rich domain of VASP abolishes its ability to bind profilin but does not affect ruffling or stress fiber formation .
The aim of the present study was to investigate the specific role of TF in the esophageal cancer microenvironment .
This correlation was due to a higher number of blood vessels rather than to a larger size of the blood vessels .
The foreign body reaction was similar in both groups .
In order to better understand the coordinated regulation of cell - cell and cell - matrix interactions during malignant transformation , we have studied the expression of syndecan - 1 in malignant mammary tumor cells genetically manipulated for E - cadherin expression .
[ Treatment of the diabetic foot by hyperbaric oxygen ]
Treatment with anti - Fas for 48 h induced apoptosis with cells exhibiting typical apoptotic features including loss of cell contact , condensation of chromatin , and increased staining of the nuclear membrane .
Silencing of monocarboxylate transporters via small interfering ribonucleic acid inhibits glycolysis and induces cell death in malignant glioma : an in vitro study .
The malate - citrate cycle was studied during aerobic glycolysis and glutaminolysis in a strain of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells which showed a very low malate - aspartate shuttle system activity .
Circular dichroism and nuclear magnetic resonance analyses indicate that this peptide forms a stable extended structure in solution , presumably beta - sheet structure and is most likely existing as a dimer .
Dopamine regulates phosphorylation of VEGF receptor 2 by engaging Src - homology - 2 - domain - containing protein tyrosine phosphatase 2 .
In pre - B acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ) with t ( 1 ; 19 ) translocation , a fusion protein is created between E2A and a homeobox gene PBX .
This encourages the performance of further studies to analyse the potential impact of 123I - IMT SPET on the therapeutic management of patients with brain tumours .
One such receptor , VEGFR - 2 / KDR , plays a key role in VEGF - induced angiogenesis .
Impaired apoptosis of pulmonary endothelial cells is associated with intimal proliferation and irreversibility of pulmonary hypertension in congenital heart disease .
Activation - induced cytidine deaminase in antibody diversification and chromosome translocation .
High density of somatostatin receptors in veins surrounding human cancer tissue : role in tumor - host interaction ?
Inhibition of ethanol metabolism by 4 - methylpyrazole partially abrogated the effect of ethanol on endothelial cell cord formation .
The rationale was that the heparin derivative , which binds to sulfated polyanion receptors on endothelial cells , should concentrate the steroid on the surface of vascular endothelial cells .
Surprisingly , the level of leukocyte adhesion in ear venules of mice with a large flank tumor was also reduced significantly .
The effects of IGF - 1 are mediated principally through the IGF - 1R but are modulated by complex interactions with multiple IGF binding proteins that themselves are regulated by phosphorylation , proteolysis , polymerization , and cell or matrix association .
In most cases treatment was associated with decreased vascular leakage , stabilization , or improved vision .
We propose that this novel , central metabolic role is at the core of the addiction for STAT3 shown by so many biologically different tumours .
Alterations in carbohydrate metabolism in canine lymphoma .
The nonspecific character of these pathways led us to hypothesize that circulating cancer cells use similar mechanisms , promoting secondary tumor formation at distal sites .
Along these same lines , TTF - 1 staining might prove useful in localizing the tumor origin of adenocarcinomas encountered outside of the lung .
In a xenograft model metronomic CPT - 11 , but not 5 - FU and L - OHP , significantly inhibits HT - 29 tumor growth and microvessel density in the absence of toxicity .
Multivariate analysis showed that cooccurrence of reduced expression of alpha - catenin and overexpression of p53 was an independent factor indicating lymph node metastases .
Furthermore , E7 mutant proteins impaired in their ability to bind p600 were transformation defective .
Immunofluorescence was used to observe the differentiation of the grafted cells into cardiomyocytes .
Female double Smad1 Smad5 and triple Smad1 Smad5 Smad8 conditional knockout mice become infertile and develop metastatic granulosa cell tumors .
These results suggest that SWAP - 70 may be required for oncogenic transformation and contributes to cell growth in MEFs transformed by v - Src .
The present study shows that a mutant with an LMP1 site - specific mutation at TES2 , LMP1 ( TRADD ) , initially stimulates cell growth and significantly extends the life span of MEF .
The majority had nuclear ( 70 . 1 % ) or nuclear and cytoplasmic staining ( 17 . 3 % ) .
Although both hypomorphic heterozygotes developed intestinal polyps , tumor multiplicities were much lower than that in Apc ( Delta716 ) mice , heterozygotes of an Apc null allele .
The serum level of CEA was reduced from 172 . 7 ng / ml to 8 . 1 ng / ml after TS - 1 treatment .
Inoculation of these cells in athymic mice decreases mouse spleen natural killer ( NK ) cell activity .
Fas ( APO - 1 / CD95 ) is a type I membrane protein that is capable of initiating an apoptosis signaling pathway when bound to its ligand ( FasL ) .
As a result of paracrine signal transmission , the effects of Hedgehog signaling most profoundly influence the stromal cells that constitute the tumor microenvironment .
F - 2 cells cultured on Matrigel showed evident tube formation , and coculture of F - 2 cells with A431 cells led to the formation of A431 cell nests constantly surrounded by tube - like networks consisting of F - 2 cells .
Interestingly , a survey of a clinical breast cancer surgical database showed that the incidence of asthma was higher among patients with lung metastases .
We investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying NRP1 - mediated angiogenesis by analyzing the association of NRP1 and KDR .
Breast tissue taken at varying postoperative times ( n = 92 ) or during surgery ( controls , n = 17 ) , was used to investigate the temporal and spatial activity of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 during human wound healing .
Although contaminating kinases were detectable in the immune complexes , at least the p53 molecules were phosphorylated in vitro in a more specific way .
Gliomas are the most common primary tumours of the central nervous system , with nearly 15 , 000 diagnosed annually in the United States and a lethality approaching 80 % within the first year of glioblastoma diagnosis .
After IL - 1Ra treatment of GK rats in vivo , most selected genes implied in endothelium / OS / immune cells / fibrosis were significantly down - regulated .
Since hexokinase is the first rate limiting enzyme in the glycolytic pathway , elevated levels of Type II like hexokinase in tumors are of great significance in this context .
METHODS : The study included 60 patients with a known prognosis of invasive breast cancer .
p63 , a p53 homologue , is a myoepithelial cell marker in the normal mammary gland but p63 - positive neoplastic cells may be found in up to 11 % of invasive breast carcinomas .
The present study revealed that androgen increases glucose utilization for de novo lipogenesis in LNCaP cells through the activation of HK2 ( hexokinase 2 ) and activation of the cardiac isoform of PFKFB2 ( 6 - phosphofructo - 2 - kinase / fructose - 2 , 6 - bisphosphatase ) .
Alpha - melanocyte - stimulating hormone ( alpha - MSH ) has evolved as a mediator of diverse biological activities in an ever - growing number of non - melanocytic cell types .
The treatment of ovarian cancer cells with luteinizing hormone , follicle - stimulating hormone , and estrogen induced a significant upregulation of SEMA3B , whereas SEMA3F was upregulated only by estrogen .
High osteonectin expression was correlated with high lung colonization .
These findings are potentially clinically relevant , because HMGA2 expression is reported to be upregulated in a number of human cancers as telomere maintenance is essential for tumorigenesis .
VEGF is the key player in tumor angiogenesis .
In contrast , doxorubicin treatment of mutant ( mut ) p53 cells ( EU - 6 / ALL line ) up - regulated survivin and induced G ( 2 ) / M arrest without inducing apoptosis .
This hypothesis was tested using the 2G7 IgG2b , which neutralizes TGF - beta 1 , - beta 2 , and - beta 3 , and the MDA - 231 human breast cancer cell line .
Pharmacologic agents have been identified that target these pathways , yet for some agents ( notably thalidomide ) , an understanding of the specific mechanisms of antitumor action has proved elusive .
There is considerable debate concerning where in the cell Notch functions and what proteins serve as effectors of the Notch signal .
VEGF - A ( 165 ) mainly contributes to increased serum VEGF levels and may serve as a diagnostic tool in advanced - stage neuroblastoma .
Integrins and growth factors are capable of activating the ras / MAP kinase pathway in vitro , yet how these signals influence endothelial cells during angiogenesis is unknown .
Crosstalk between these two pathways is also thought to contribute to progression and hormone - refractory prostate disease .
Tumor size , serosal invasion , lymph node metastasis , peritoneal dissemination , and TNM classification was significantly correlated with sVAP - 1 level .
Surprisingly , TSP - 2 expression was strongly upregulated in the mesenchymal stroma of wild - type mice throughout the consecutive stages of tumorigenesis whereas the angiogenesis factor , vascular endothelial growth factor , was induced predominantly in tumor cells .
PURPOSE : The goal of this research was to evaluate a potential therapeutic agent for breast cancer based on galectin - 3 that has been implicated in tumorigenicity and metastasis of breast cancer .
We show that HIF - 1alpha and VEGF are increased through A3 adenosine receptor stimulation , whereas the effects on IL - 8 are mediated via the A2B subtype .
The purpose of the present study was to measure the MVD and VEGF expression in a cohort of patients with betel - associated OSCC and to evaluate for possible clinicopathologic correlations .
Perfusion thresholds were estimated at tumor blood flow values of 69 . 0 + / - 0 . 1 ml / 100 g / min ( estimate + / - standard error ) and of 69 + / - 7 . 1 ml / 100 g / min for the beginning of the decline in regional ATP and glucose content , respectively .
Moreover , intramuscular p75 ( NTR ) gene delivery impairs neovascularization and blood flow recovery in a mouse model of limb ischemia .
Small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors offer the potential to inhibit more than one kinase and impede tumor growth by multiple mechanisms .
We demonstrate that a decrease in the amount of circulating ANG II by the angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitor enalapril or the AT1 receptor antagonist losartan induced a stimulation of in vivo angiogenesis implying an inhibitory function of ANG II through the AT1 receptor .
Transduction of BMSVTs with hTERT resulted in immortalization of 4 out of 4 cultures .
Injection of indomethacin , a nonselective COX inhibitor , on the day of ovulation and the following day decreased serum levels of progesterone , as did injection of the selective COX - II inhibitor NS - 398 .
In vitro cell proliferation , combination studies and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) secretion analyses were performed on endothelial ( HMVEC - d ) and colorectal cancer ( HT - 29 ) cells exposed for 144 h to metronomic concentrations of SN - 38 , the active metabolite of CPT - 11 , L - OHP and 5 - FU .
Alpha - melanocyte - stimulating hormone modulates activation of NF - kappa B and AP - 1 and secretion of interleukin - 8 in human dermal fibroblasts .
To understand the molecular pathway in Hoxa9 / Meis1 - induced leukemogenesis , retroviral insertional mutagenesis was applied using retrovirus - mediated gene transfer .
Osteonectin transcript and metastatic behavior in v - Ki - ras transformed fibroblasts .
A reduction and not an increase in tumor glucose availability could be a more appropriate strategy for the induction of energy failure in tumors .
Indeed , Ang1 promotes the activation of mDia through RhoA , resulting in the association of mDia with Src .
Although there was no significant difference of the H . pylori positivity between the two groups , the rate for both groups was higher than reported in previous studies .
Similar results were also obtained with respect to 5 - FU .
Thrombospondins , metallo proteases and thrombospondin receptors messenger RNA and protein expression in different tumour sublines of the Dunning prostate cancer model .
Comparison of transformation by manganese sulfate and 5 - azacytidine in Rat 6 cells overexpressing the c - myc oncogene .
In conclusion , this study identifies new functional properties for CD154 , which are potentially relevant for the growth and dissemination of renal carcinoma cells .
The adenomatous polyposis coli ( APC ) gene , whose mutations are responsible for familial adenomatous polyposis , is a major negative controller of the Wnt / beta - catenin pathway .
Randomised placebo controlled trials have shown that the phosphodiesterase III inhibitor cilostazol 100mg bid improves pain - free and maximum walking distance , as well as quality of life , in a range of patients with intermittent claudication in whom there is no evidence of tissue necrosis or rest pain .
The main purpose of the present investigation was to study the effect of the homologous series of 4 - alkylmorpholine N - oxides on ATP - producing processes in Ehrlich ascites and L1210 murine leukaemia cells .
14 diabetics with chronic nonhealing wounds which did not respond to treatment for at least 3 months were treated by HBO .
9E3 / CEF4 mRNA was expressed in chicken peripheral blood monocytes , and its expression was stimulated by incubation of the monocytes with lipopolysaccharide or phorbol myristic acetate .
The growth of the cells was not inhibited under these conditions , except after treatment with 10 microM all - trans - RA in serum - free medium .
In fact , p75 ( NTR ) depresses the VEGF - A / Akt / eNOS / NO pathway and additionally reduces the mRNA levels of ITGB1 [ beta ( 1 ) integrin ] , BIRC5 ( survivin ) , PTTG1 ( securin ) and VEZF1 .
To assay for the possible presence of transforming genes which were not active in a focus formation assay , two of the epithelial lines were analysed further by co - transfection with a dominant selectable marker , followed by selection and inoculation into nude mice .
An assay to measure angiogenesis in human fat tissue .
Villani et al . define a key role for the IGF regulatory protein Igfbp2 in a genetic model of basal cell carcinogenesis driven by targeted constitutive activation of hedgehog signaling .
CONCLUSION : Myofibroblasts represent an important prognostic factor for invasive growth that is translated into a poor clinical prognosis for patients with invasive breast cancer .
The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of tricyclic antidepressant desipramine ( DMI ) on the growth inhibition and translocation of the glucocorticoid receptor ( GR ) from the cytoplasm to the nucleus in cancerous and noncancerous cell lines and the effect of DMI on GR - mediated transcription .
Sensitization to gimatecan - induced apoptosis by tumor necrosis factor - related apoptosis inducing ligand in prostate carcinoma cells .
The members of an Epstein - Barr virus microRNA cluster cooperate to transform B lymphocytes .
We have previously shown that IFI16 is required for proinflammatory gene stimulation by IFN - gamma through the NF - kappaB complex .
Expression of basic fibroblast growth factor in normal human tissues .
CONCLUSION : The up - regulation of HER2 and B ( 1 ) R in precursor lesions of gallbladder carcinoma suggests cross - talk between these two receptors that may be of importance in the modulation of cell proliferation in gallbladder carcinogenesis .
However , by treatment with Ha - ras oncogenes derived from a human lung carcinoma or Harvey murine sarcoma virus , the KMST - 6 cells acquired elevated clonability in soft agar and transplantability in nude mice .
The age and oral habits of patients , as well as the tumor site and size , did not appear to be correlated with h - MVD or VEGF immunoreactivity .
RESULTS : Proteomic findings indicated that adenosine triphosphate synthase alpha chain was up - regulated , whereas annexin II , annexin V , beta ( 2 ) - tubulin , and profilin 1 were down - regulated .
Osteotomy fracture healing without the traction stimulus failed to induce a corresponding increase in these factors .
Anti - IL - 6 therapy is a new strategy in the inflammatory autoimmune diseases and cancer .
Cell - matrix adhesion assay showed that the adhesive ability of CNE1 - GL with the matrix ( mean A value : 1 . 2508 + / - 0 . 0711 ) was higher than that of CNE1 cell ( mean A value : 0 . 9519 + / - 0 . 068 ) ( P < 0 . 001 ) .
Cells infected with this mutant display a 36 , 000 - dalton protein that is phosphorylated to a considerably lesser extent than cells infected with wild - type virus .
The 20 - HETE agonist markedly increased superoxide formation as reflected by an increase in dihydroethidium staining of EC , and this increase was inhibited by PEG - SOD but not by apocynin .
With the appropriate agent , targeting endosialin may interfere with blood vessel growth during tumor development .
The expression of metallothionein - 1 ( Mt - 1 ) gene , which is regulated by GR , was induced significantly by the combination of DMI and FA , and enhanced significantly by pretreatment with FA but not DMI .
Conversely , inducible over - expression of RASSF1C in breast cancer cells ( MDA - MB231 and T47D ) resulted in a small increase in cell proliferation .
Significant differences were found between the control and experimental fat pads with regard to weight and length .
It leads to enhanced oxygenation of the affected tissues , has an antiseptic effect , reduces edema , and accelerates collagen production and angiogenesis , thus enhancing tissue repair .
There was strong correlation between percentage perforin - positive cells and zonal tumor cell death .
The 5T4 antigen is a transmembrane glycoprotein with a 310 amino acid extracellular domain and a 44 amino acid cytoplasmic domain .
The keratin 5 ( K5 ) promoter drives transgenic expression to the basal cell layer of stratified epithelia .
A possible explanation for the decrease in the ATP level might be interaction of the amine oxide with the cell membrane .
There was no effect on overall protein biosynthesis or ER stress .
To explore the potential of chemotherapy directed at the tyrosine kinase of p185neu , we have found that emodin ( 3 - methyl - 1 , 6 , 8 - trihydroxyanthraquinone ) , a tyrosine kinase inhibitor , suppresses autophosphorylation and transphosphorylation activities of HER - 2 / neu tyrosine kinase , resulting in tyrosine hypophosphorylation of p185neu in HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells .
Specific miRNAs ( angiomiRs ) have recently been shown to regulate angiogenesis in vivo .
Expression of Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 in primary tumors and lymph node metastases in oral squamous cell carcinoma .
Given that PLCbeta3 is typically known as an effector of heterotrimeric G - proteins , our data demonstrate a unique crosstalk between the G - protein and receptor tyrosine kinase ( RTK ) axes and reveal a novel molecular mechanism of VEGF signaling and , thus , angiogenesis .
Our studies highlight the plasticity of aggressive human ovarian carcinoma cells and call into question the underlying significance of their ability to form VM in vitro induced by VEGF - a .
To assess its role on human vascular lung development , we first examined the expression of IGF - I / II and IGF receptor type I ( IGF - IR ) in human embryonic and fetal lung tissues at 4 - 12 wk of gestation .
Gene transfer of naked DNA encoding for three isoforms of vascular endothelial growth factor stimulates collateral development in vivo .
PURPOSE : To optimize the method of treating choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) associated with age - related macular degeneration ( AMD ) .
In contrast , bFGF mRNA was not altered by alinidine treatment .
In T - cell ALL with t ( 10 ; 14 ) translocation , the HOX 11 gene is deregulated .
To understand the biologic mechanisms of this extremely effective response , we compared by microarray the gene - expression profile of patients ' biopsies taken before and after radiation .
The process of angiogenesis is also thought to occur in response to ischaemic conditions , which lie at the core of cardiovascular disease states such as coronary artery disease and congestive heart failure .
Three weeks after injection , blood perfusion and capillary density were significantly higher in the FM - MSC and BM - MSC groups than in the phosphate - buffered saline group , and allogeneic FM - MSC and BM - MSC were still observed .
Predictive markers for anti - VEGF agents have not yet been identified and questions regarding the usefulness of bevacizumab in the adjuvant setting as well as its continued use beyond progression remain unanswered , in spite of negative data on bevacizumab in treating patients with adjuvant colon cancer .
CONCLUSION : These results demonstrated that PTEN had played an important role in the cell proliferation , cell migration and invasion dependent on its phosphatase activity .
It is clear that this cycle functions optimally in skin of dark pigmentation .
A precise identification of LVI would have a strong clinical impact for breast cancer patients .
BMECs transfected with SV40T ( BMSVTs ) had an extended lifespan , but eventually succumbed to crisis .
Oncostatin M ( OSM ) , an IL - 6 family cytokine responsible for STAT3 activation , has been implicated in cancer development , progression , invasion , and metastasis .
We have described striking increases in VEGF protein in both neurons and glia after pilocarpine - induced status epilepticus in the brain .
IL - 17F ablation decreased IL - 1beta and Cox - 2 expression as well as IL - 17 receptor C ( IL - 17RC ) expression , which were increased in tumors from Apc ( Min / + ) mice .
hADA3 binds selectively to the high - risk HPV E6 proteins and only to immortalization - competent E6 mutants .
Here , we review the role of the Hedgehog pathway in the signature characteristics of cancer cells that determine tumor development , progression , and metastasis .
CONCLUSIONS : The combination of bevacizumab and irinotecan is safe and has excellent activity even in this relapsed , heavily pretreated population of patients with high - grade malignant glioma , most of whom would not be candidates for clinical trials .
Commonality exists in the processes involved in vasculature development between tissues whether healthy or diseased .
Radiation significantly affected DMBA - associated vascular volume and permeability changes during carcinogenesis .
Fibroblast growth factor - 2 ( FGF - 2 ) has been reported to play multiple roles in different biological processes during development of the central nervous system ( CNS ) .
The more pronounced effects of Bmi - 1 over - expression in culture were largely attributable to the attenuated induction of p16 ( Ink4a ) and p19 ( Arf ) in culture , proteins that are generally not expressed by neural stem / progenitor cells in young mice in vivo .
We have detected transforming activity by a tumorigenicity assay using NIH3T3 cells transfected with DNA from a chronic myeloproliferative disorder patient .
BACKGROUND : Vascular adhesion protein - 1 ( VAP - 1 ) regulates leukocyte tissue infiltration .
Angiogenesis is a critical process in solid tumor growth and metastasis .
Positron emission tomography ( PET ) imaging has become a useful tool for assessing early biologic response to cancer therapy and may be particularly useful in the development of new cancer therapeutics .
Here , we show that gene transfer - induced p75 ( NTR ) expression impairs the survival , proliferation , migration , and adhesion capacities of cultured ECs and endothelial progenitor cells ( EPCs ) and inhibits angiogenesis in vitro .
The expression of NP - 1 , NP - 2 , and plexin - A1 was not altered in human ovarian surface epithelial and ovarian cancer cells .
Here we review and comment on these findings and on their implications for cancer biology .
Thus , our data show that allergic respiratory inflammation may represent a risk factor for the development of lung metastases and suggest that amelioration of the pulmonary inflammation associated with asthma will have a direct and immediate benefit to the 7 % to 8 % of breast cancer patients with this lung disease .
Mast cells were found to be unique among the peritoneal leukocytes by virtue of their capacity to enhance profoundly the proliferation of a variety of tumors in vitro .
Twenty mature male New Zealand white rabbits ( 3 kg weight ) were employed to evaluate the effects of two empirically selected stimulation paradigms applied continuously for 7 - 21 days , using each animal as its own control .
The epithelioid cells were entirely supported by proliferated capillaries and arteries together with collagenous stroma .
GDP and AGE receptors : mechanisms of peritoneal damage .
Inhibition of tumor vascular development has a direct effect on the growth and progression of the tumor .
Sorafenib treatment led to accumulation of autophagosomes as evidenced by conversion from LC3 - I to LC3 - II observed by immunoblot in Huh7 , HLF and PLC / PRF / 5 cells .
OBJECTIVES : Strategies to inhibit the VEGF pathway , including antibodies to VEGF , antibodies to the extracellular domain of VEGFR - 1 or VEGFR - 2 , decoy receptors for VEGF and tyrosine kinase inhibitors of VEGFRs , are summarized .
The A431 cells exhibited typical in vitro cell adhesion to the endothelial F - 2 cells .
Patients with rectal cancer had greater topo I expression than those with colon tumors ( P = . 029 ) .
The importance of NO in the vasculature is demonstrated by several experimental conditions , such as vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) - induced angiogenesis .
Clinical data on bevacizumab is discussed in detail .
TRADD domain of Epstein - Barr virus transforming protein LMP1 is essential for inducing immortalization and suppressing senescence of primary rodent fibroblasts .
Adenovirus - mediated gene transfer of endostatin in vivo results in high level of transgene expression and inhibition of tumor growth and metastases .
In oral cancers , cytoplasmic BAG - 1 overexpression is a marker of poor prognosis .
The mean final visual acuity in eyes with higher refractive error at baseline ( greater than - 17 diopters ) was significantly better ( P = 0 . 014 ) than that in eyes with lower refractive error ( - 6 to - 10 diopters ) .
In addition , the microtubule - destabilizing agents cause prominent changes in endothelial cell morphology , an action associated with rapid vascular collapse in vivo .
In addition , ethanol exposure decreased expression of endothelial VEGF receptor - 2 , as well as VEGF receptor - 2 phosphorylation in vitro .
Due to the low prevalence of hemangiopericytomas ( HPCs ) , data on the biophysiological characteristics of this tumor are rare .
A Whipple procedure led to a complete resolution of these symptoms and a return of an elevated stomatostatin level to normal .
These results suggest that MnSO4 co - operates with overexpressed c - myc in inducing transformation , while 5 - azacytidine transformation is independent of c - myc overexpression and may involve alterations in the regulation of apoptosis .
BAG - 1L was nucleoplasmic and nucleolar , whereas BAG - 1S and BAG - 1M were cytoplasmic and nucleoplasmic in localisation .
Nitric oxide ( NO ) plays an important role in maintaining vascular homeostasis .
TRAP - activated platelets stimulated a dose - dependent increase in SKOV3 cell invasion .
Neuroblastoma cells and Chang hepatocytes are then plated separately with the conditioned medium and their own standard growth medium as controls .
These results suggest a novel treatment for RDEB , namely , angiogenesis inhibitors , which may antagonize the effects of bFGF in this disorder .
In addition suppression of WT1 expression by WT1 anti - sense oligonucleotide inhibits proliferation of leukemia cells , suggesting that WT1 is important for their proliferation .
CONCLUSIONS : PDT can reduce the clinical signs of activity , such as choroidal hyperpermeability or neurosensorial retinal detachment , in patients affected by chronic CSC .
METHODS : We assessed the role of CDC4 / FBXW7 in gastric cancer , through loss of heterozygosity ( LOH ) and multiplex ligation - dependent probe amplification ( MLPA ) on 47 flow - sorted gastric carcinomas including early - onset gastric cancers ( EOGC ) and xenografted conventional gastric carcinomas .
Hox 1 . 4 and Hox 1 . 3 , genes abundantly induced in nontransformed clones after 3 days of RA treatment , are expressed in N - ras - transformed cells only after 10 days of RA treatment .
Cancer is no longer considered by scientists just a jumble of mutated cells .
Furthermore , we showed that glycogen was depleted in a low glucose medium , but conserved under hypoxic conditions .
Additional rats underwent partial hepatectomy , an immunosuppressive procedure known to accelerate the growth of hepatic tumor , following tumor challenge .
There is accumulating evidence that the tissue damage associated with chronic wounds is initiated and propagated by an inappropriately excessive inflammatory response .
In animal or cell culture studies , the growth and spread of cancer can be slowed by many nutrients , food factors , herbal extracts , and well - tolerated , available drugs that are still rarely used in the clinical management of cancer , in part because they seem unlikely to constitute definitive therapies in themselves .
The ability of CLA to inhibit angiogenesis may contribute to its efficacy as a chemopreventive agent .
In this study , we have investigated gene knockdown analysis of endothelial Robos , in particular roundabout 4 ( robo4 ) , the predominant Robo in endothelial cells using small interfering RNA technology in vitro .
Patients ' reading vision could not be saved for a long - term run .
These models may have clinically relevant implications , particularly for the tailoring of therapeutic strategies targeting telomerase .
Thus , our results provide the first evidence that , in human breast carcinoma cells and in rat mammary carcinomas that have an induced increase in neu expression , a consistent and substantial increase in the expression of specific PTPases occurs .
Our earlier studies showed that DATS induced apoptosis in human colon cancer HT29 and colo 205 cell lines in vitro .
Remarkably , lymphomas arising in Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) mice ( encoding p53R172P ) retain stable genomes .
As LVI is a strong predictive and prognostic marker , the monoclonal antibody D2 - 40 has the potential to play a significant role in pathological routine workup of breast tumors .
The mechanism of Notch signaling remains poorly understood .
The elimination half - life when administered i . m . was found to be 3 . 0 h in the serum and 4 . 3 h in the cellular fraction of the blood .
Keratinocyte progenitor cells from TPA - treated Tg . AC mice were isolated with fluorescence - activated cell sorting and expression was analyzed using cDNA microarray technology .
The data support the concept that a positive relationship exists between the density of blood vessels and the formation of bone .
TAMs counts was related to VEGF - C expression in OSCC ( r = 0 . 370 , P < 0 . 05 ) .
Our findings support a novel role for pyruvate in metabolic signaling and suggest a mechanism by which high rates of aerobic glycolysis can promote the malignant transformation and survival of cancer cells .
In this study , 14 of 18 lung cancer cell lines ( 78 % ) expressed CD40 on their surface .
Furthermore , we determined the ability of U - 995 to inhibiting tumor cell growth and metastasis .
The onset of their differentiation was ascertained by the deposition of marker pteridine pigments .
Silencing of directional migration in roundabout4 knockdown endothelial cells .
Historically , PDT has been limited by a lack of suitable photosensitive dyes .
VDAs can be divided into biologics , such as ligand - based , and small - molecule agents ; this second group includes small - molecule VDAs like flavonoids , such as 5 , 6 - dimethylxanthenone - 4 - acetic acid ( DMXAA ) , and microtubule - destabilizing agents .
Our in vitro studies showed that NIH3T3 cells overexpressing BI - 1 displayed a significantly higher growth rate and formed more and larger colonies than the control cells .
Based on the models assessed herein , we infer that that FH deficiency compels cells to adopt an early , reversible , and progressive protumorigenic metabolic milieu that is reminiscent of that driving the Warburg effect .
Reconstitution of MCF - 7 cell extracts with procaspase - 3 corrects this defect , resulting in an efficient and complete processing of procaspase - 9 .
The intensity of O2 adsorption by ascites tumor cells does not practically depend on the monovalent cation concentration gradient between the cells and the culture medium , whereas the rate of glycolysis decreases simultaneously with the diminution of the concentration gradient .
cDNA microarray expression analysis showed that the mouse homologue of Dss1 is induced by TPA .
CONTEXT : Nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( NPC ) , common in southern China and North Africa , has a complex etiology involving interplay between viral , environmental , and hereditary factors and is almost constantly associated with the Epstein - Barr virus .
The necessity of Crk in ephrin - B1 - induced membrane ruffling was shown both by the overexpression of dominant negative Crk mutants and by the depletion of Crk by using RNA interference .
METHODS : MSCs from Sprague - Dawley ( SD ) rats were isolated and cultured in vitro .
Chronic inflammation is a common underlying condition for human tumor development , accounting for approximately 20 % of human cancers .
The transformation is a consequence of the ability of viruses to integrate into the host cell ' s DNA and to produce transforming proteins .
The control WB cells in continuous culture slowly developed TGF - beta resistance .
These results suggest that CYR61 and CTGF may play a role in the progression of gliomas ; their levels at diagnosis may have prognostic significance ; and these proteins might serve as valuable targets for therapeutic intervention .
This review provides basic information for the understanding of the biology of NF - kappaB and aims at presenting experimental data illustrating the involvement of NF - kappaB / Rel in pancreatic cancer .
Careful selection of patients may be necessary before designing therapeutic strategies using either p53 or E2F - 1 as a therapeutic tools for glioma patients .
Ultraviolet B irradiation promotes tumorigenic and metastatic properties in primary cutaneous melanoma via induction of interleukin 8 .
Finally , dynamic host - to - graft interactions - - including phagocytic migration , astrocytic hypertrophy and infiltration within the grafts , and angiogenesis - - are features that constitute the structural integration of primary skin fibroblasts grafted within the adult rat central nervous system .
Finally , anti - p53 monoclonal antibodies only slightly affected in vitro phosphorylation reactions , whereas a p53 molecule from a simian virus 40 - free , chemically transformed human cell line was not phosphorylated in vitro under any condition tested .
The polyester prostheses utilized were polyester flat ( PF ) and polyester soft three - dimensional ( PS ) ; the PP mesh utilized was Marlex .
Curcumin induces apoptosis in immortalized NIH 3T3 and malignant cancer cell lines .
Up - regulation of MMP activity , favoring proteolytic degradation of the basement membrane and extracellular matrix , has been linked to tumor growth and metastasis , as well as tumor - associated angiogenesis , whereas inhibition of MMP activity appears to restrict these processes .
Effect of thalidomide affecting VEGF secretion , cell migration , adhesion and capillary tube formation of human endothelial EA . hy 926 cells .
The tyrosine kinase inhibitor cediranib blocks ligand - induced vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 3 activity and lymphangiogenesis .
The most common toxicity was skin rash ( 40 % ) ; myelosuppression and gastrointestinal side effects were uncommon .
In the pathologic analysis of the abdominal wounds , there was no statistically significant difference between any of the groups , including the control group , regarding inflammation .
With the recent ability to clone capillary endothelial cells and to carry them in long - term culture , it has been possible to further delineate the mechanism of capillary growth .
T140 analogs are peptidic CXCR4 antagonists composed of 14 amino acid residues that were previously developed as anti - HIV agents having inhibitory activity against HIV - entry through its co - receptor , CXCR4 .
One limitation of these approaches , however , may be the failure to normalize myocardial perfusion , due to the concomitant presence or small of resistance vessel disease .
To test this hypothesis , the frequency of metastasis to the lung as a function of allergic pulmonary inflammation was assessed following the i . v . injection of B16 - F10 melanoma cells in mice .
The same result was obtained when the model contained ER status and ER - tamoxifen interaction .
MTSS1 : a multifunctional protein and its role in cancer invasion and metastasis .
These data suggest that 20 - HETE stimulates superoxide formation by pathways other than apocynin - sensitive NAD ( P ) H oxidase , thereby activating MAPK and then enhancing VEGF synthesis that drives EC proliferation .
Jun N terminal kinase ( JNK1 ) and p38 kinase are activated by a variety of stress stimuli .
The activity of type IV collagenase , which enables tumor cells to degrade collagen type IV found in the subendothelial basement membrane , has been correlated with the metastatic potential in several tumor types , including the rat 13762NF mammary adenocarcinoma cell line and its clones .
Sunitinib is an oral multitargeted receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor with antiangiogenic and antitumor activity that mainly targets vascular endothelial growth factor receptors ( VEGFRs ) .
They were treated with HBO in 56 + / - 10 consecutive HBO sessions .
We also compared the presence of EGFR and TGF - alpha and Ki - 67 index with clinical data .
These results suggest that Cum - OOH - induced carcinogenesis is accompanied by increased AP - 1 activation and changes in antioxidant status .
Because failure of endothelial cell apoptosis might lead to intimal proliferation and lack of reversibility of PHT , we investigated this and other key markers of vasoactivity and angiogenesis in subjects with PHT and CHD .
BACKGROUND & # 38 ; OBJECTIVE : It has been proved that Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) latent membrane protein 1 ( EBV - LMP1 ) can induce the expression of matrix metalloproteinase - 9 ( MMP - 9 ) .
Increased VEGF expression by malignant tumors has been associated with high vascularity , increased cancer cell growth , and lymph node metastasis .
The down - regulation of p21WAF1 closely correlated with poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase cleavage and CPP32 activation .
In recent years , investigating the metabolic changes within cancer cells has been a rapidly growing area .
Angiogenesis - dependent diseases result when new blood vessels either grow excessively or insufficiently .
c - kit gene mutation may play a significant role in the pathogenesis of GIST and also may be a prognostic marker .
Clear cell renal cell carcinoma ( CC - RCC ) is a highly vascularised tumour and is therefore an attractive disease to study angiogenesis and to test novel angiogenesis inhibitors in early clinical development .
The metastasis group showed significantly higher alpha - SMA expression compared with the no metastasis group ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
In the present study , we applied the alginate implant angiogenesis model in mice with normal ANG II levels , elevated ANG II levels by transgenic overexpression of angiotensinogen ( AOGEN ) , or in AT2 receptor - deficient mice .
The pomegranate tree , Punica granatum , especially its fruit , possesses a vast ethnomedical history and represents a phytochemical reservoir of heuristic medicinal value .
Germline succinate dehydrogenase subunit A ( SDHA ) mutations have been reported in a few patients with a classical mitochondrial neurodegenerative disease .
This ectopic ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis and is inhibited by angiostatin over a wide pH range .
This model will be useful for understanding mechanisms underlying vascular and angiogenic neoplasias , as well as for testing drugs designed to curtail aberrant EC growth .
The p53 - dependent and p - 53 - independent functions of this protein are under many studies .
Several of these inhibitors are currently being evaluated in clinical trials .
These results suggest that there is cell type specificity for oncogene activation during in vitro rat bladder transformation initiated by a single carcinogen and that ras gene activation is not a necessary step in urothelial transformation in vitro .
A major step forwards in the treatment of solid tumors is the recognition of the tumor - associated vasculature as an important target for therapy .
In addition , the silencing of DCC expression may contribute to the escape of endometrial cancer cells from a DCC - regulated apoptotic program , thereby promoting malignant phenotypes .
Constitutively active RhoA ( FRTL - 5 - RhoA QL cells ) exhibited a fibroblast - like phenotype with organized actin fibers , whereas cells expressing the RhoA negative dominant phenotype ( FRTL - 5 - RhoA N19 cells ) present a rounded morphology and lose normal cytoskeletal architecture .
Typically , proliferation and chemotaxis of endothelial cells is driven by growth factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) .
PMN - triggered angiogenesis is also blocked by both local injection and daily i . p . administration of the Hyp salt in an interleukin - 8 - induced murine model .
This was attributed to high entrapment of lipoplexes in the extended lung vascular tree .
Contemporary perspectives on vital pulp therapy : views from the endodontists and pediatric dentists .
The present study was designed to investigate the effect of transplanted MSCs from rats of different ages on the improvement of heart function after AMI .
Building the vertebrate vasculature : research is going swimmingly .
Our results show CWR22Rv - 1 and PC3 tumor cell lines to be more metastatic than LAPC - 4 , which in turn disseminates more readily than LAPC - 9 .
This finding may help to elucidate the relationship of WT1 and N - myc in tumorigenesis and renal development .
Our data align osteonectin with other matrix - components and adhesion molecules in affecting potential metastatic spreading of transformed cells .
The update information testifies about protumoral activity of neutrophils : they migrate to a tumor and promote angiogenesis and metastasis at late stages of the tumor .
In groups 1 & 2 , hindlimb ischemia was induced by ligation of femoral artery and they received L - NIL and saline respectively .
The cell cycle progression and sub - G1 population were analysed by flow cytometry .
However , the regulation of adipose tissue angiogenesis in humans has not been extensively studied .
FVIIa - induced antiapoptotic effect was dependent on its proteolytic activity and TF but independent of factor Xa and thrombin .
Induction of tumor lymphangiogenesis by vascular endothelial growth factor - D may play an important role in promoting tumor metastasis to regional lymph nodes and these processes can be inhibited by inactivation of the VEGFR - 3 signaling pathway .
It was shown that large T - antigen showed associated kinase activity , although none of our results could unambiguously demonstrate an intrinsic kinase activity of this protein .
Leukocyte - vessel wall interactions were studied both within and outside small tumors growing in the ear , and in ear microvessels of mice with a large tumor growing on their flank .
The graft size is dependent on the density of the cell suspension , but not dependent on either the number of passages the cells are taken through in culture prior to grafting or on the postoperative survival period .
MTSS1 ( metastasis suppressor - 1 ) was first identified as a metastasis suppressor missing in metastatic bladder carcinoma cell lines .
BACKGROUND : Abnormal hemostasis in cancer patients has previously been described , however the correlation between the plasma fibrinogen level and cancer metastasis and prognosis has not been reported in a large - scale clinical study .
Normal cells are 10 - to 50 - fold more resistant to these effects .
There was no correlation of survivin with bcl - 2 or bax expression , or with other prognostic parameters ( age , tumor size , histologic type , histologic grade , nodal status , and tumor stage ) ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
LMP1 of Epstein - Barr virus induces proliferation of primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts and cooperatively transforms the cells with a p16 - insensitive CDK4 oncogene .
Expression of cyclooxygenase ( COX ) - 2 plays a key role in tumorigenesis and development and peroxisome proliferator - activated receptor gamma ( PPARgamma ) has been implicated in the control of COX - 2 expression in some tissues .
Met amplification and tumor progression in Cdkn2a - deficient melanocytes .
Tumors greater than 35 mm3 treated with IR 24 hours previously or with TEMF had decreased blood vessels in the subcortex and more endothelial pseudopods projecting into hypoxic , HIF positive areas than tumors from the control group .
Migration of capillary endothelial cells is an important component of angiogenesis in vivo .
Eighteen patients with SRNV refusing radiotherapy served as a control group and were matched with 18 irradiated patients .
In addition , we showed that paclitaxel downregulated the phosphorylation of Akt in both HeLa and CaSki cells .
In contrast , cancer cells depend mostly on glycolysis , the aerobic breakdown of glucose into ATP .
A uniform left ventricular injury was produced in female rats using a cryoprobe .
PP mesh resulted in more fibrous encapsulation and stiffness than PF and PS prostheses .
Lactate - dehydrogenase 5 is overexpressed in non - small cell lung cancer and correlates with the expression of the transketolase - like protein 1 .
These discoveries have dramatically changed the work - up and genetic counseling of patients and families with paragangliomas and / or pheochromocytomas .
Here , we compared the sensitivity of RCC cells lacking VHL gene function with that of RCC cells expressing the wild - type VHL gene ( wtVHL ) after exposure to various stresses .
This resulted in a substantial increase in P185neu expression , which led to the formation of progressively growing carcinomas after such cells were inoculated into athymic nude mice .
Balb / c 3T3 cells carrying this NPC - LMP gene showed a transformed cell morphology and were tumorigenic in nude mice .
Therefore , understanding these signaling mechanisms may provide us with novel ways to develop strategies for treating clinical diseases induced by these cytokines .
Malignant cells often display defects in autophagy , an evolutionarily conserved pathway for degrading long - lived proteins and cytoplasmic organelles .
The mechanism underlying the association between high PE and poor clinical outcome is unclear , although it may be related to the possible PE reflection of tumor burden .
The E2F - 1 protein is able to induce generalized apoptosis in gliomas independently of the p53 , p16 or Rb status .
Angiostatin inhibits both ATP synthesis and ATP hydrolysis ( Moser et al . , 2001 ) and interferes with intracellular pH regulation ( Wahl and Grant , 2002 ; Wahl et al . , 2002 ) .
Among the most potent of the angiogenic factors is vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
Strikingly , Tip30 deletion promotes proliferation of primary MECs and results in rapid immortalization of MECs in vitro relative to wild - type cells .
Depletion of Rab7a decreased VEGFR2 Y1175 phosphorylation but increased p42 / 44 ( pERK1 / 2 ) MAPK phosphorylation .
In cultured stable Grm1 - mouse - melanocytic clones , as well as an metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 ( Grm1 ) expressing human melanoma cell line , C8161 , stimulation of Grm1 by its agonist led to the activation of AKT , while preincubation with Grm1 - antagonist abolished Grm1 - agonist - induced AKT activation .
In a multivariate analysis D2 - 40 + was the strongest predictor for ALNM with an odds ratio of 3 . 489 and a P - value of P = 0 . 0003 , followed only by T - stage and grading with odds ratios of 3 . 167 and 1 . 953 and P - values P = 0 . 0003 and P = 0 . 0352 .
The prevailing model for Notch signaling suggests that ligand , presented on a neighboring cell , triggers proteolytic processing of Notch .
In concordance with its higher affinity for tumor Hsp90 , in vivo PU24FCl accumulates in tumors while being rapidly cleared from normal tissue .
In contrast , ectopic TSP - 1 expression in SiHa cells has little effect on the invasive ability of the NIH3T3 cells .
TEL is a member of the ETS family of transcription factors that interacts with the mSin3 and SMRT corepressors to regulate transcription .
It suggests that altered PTEN gene contributes to tumorigenesis and progression of gastric carcinomas .
A marked coronary angiogenesis is known to occur with chronic bradycardia .
The most intense immunoreactivity was observed in branching capillaries .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) - induced receptor phosphorylation is the crucial step for initiating downstream signaling pathways that lead to angiogenesis or related pathophysiological outcomes .
Inhibition of STAT3 activation by expressing a dominant - negative STAT3 protein or a STAT3 - shRNA prevented the OSM - mediated arrest .
The anti - apoptotic protein c - FLIP ( cellular Flice - like inhibitory protein ) , which has been shown to inhibit Fas - mediated apoptosis at the DISC , was down - regulated following AdGFPFasL ( TET ) treatment prompting us to investigate its role in inhibiting CH - 11 - induced cell death .
After 15 days , the clots were examined by histology and electron microscopy .
Transfection with hTERT alone , led to the immortalization of two out of three cultures of bone marrow - derived ECs ( BMECs ) .
We quantified the expression of alpha - SMA as a marker of myofibroblasts in the invasive breast cancer .
While in control specimens are ara - C dose - dependent increase in 3H - ara - C uptake was accompanied by a corresponding rise in intracellular ara - C - 5 ' triphosphate ( ara - CTP ) levels , ara - CTP concentrations were not increased after GM - CSF or IL - 3 exposure , resulting in a higher ara - C to ara - CTP ratio over controls .
The excessive production of ROS can damage protein , lipids , nucleic acids , and matrix components .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the effect of adenovirus - mediated endostatin gene transfer on transplanted lung cancer in mice and its mechanism of action .
Bevacizumab is a humanized immunoglobulin G1 monoclonal antibody to vascular endothelial growth factor that has been shown to have activity in malignant gliomas when combined with irinotecan .
Hypermethylation of the HRK promoter alone was not associated with overall outcome , but relapse - free survival was significantly shorter .
With K562 cells Glut - 1 appeared as a broad band of 50 - 60 kDa , whereas with U937 and HL60 cells a diffuse band was observed at approximately 55 kDa .
Thrombospondin ( TSP ) - 1 , a potent angiogenesis inhibitor , has been shown to exert different biological functions on various cell types .
Although antibodies to PAI - 1 did not affect the adhesion of HT1080 cells to vitronectin , the antibody to uPA reduced their attachment .
Bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy is first - line therapy for stage IV disease .
These data highlight sanguinarine as a novel potential agent for bone cancer therapy .
Recent advances have fostered a more detailed understanding of molecular mechanisms and networks governing EMT in tumor progression .
In 1983 , Harold Dvorak and his colleagues were the first to show that tumor cells secreted vascular permeability factor ( VPF ) and that a blocking antibody to VPF could prevent the edema and fluid accumulation that is characteristic of human cancers .
Considering the relatively few number of patients treated by angiogenic therapy , the interpretation of clinical results needs cautiousness .
The tissue response to this biologic mesh is discussed in the context of recent reports on clinical hernia repair .
The mechanisms underlying the initial insulin - induced deterioration of retinal status in patients with diabetes remain unknown .
Further , delivery of an appropriate combination of DAPT and VEGF from an injectable alginate hydrogel system into ischemic hindlimbs led to a faster recovery of blood flow than VEGF or DAPT alone ; perfusion levels reached 80 % of the normal level by week 4 with combined DAPT and VEGF delivery .
However , development of consumption coagulopathy characterized by progression from hypercoagulable state to disseminated intravascular coagulation has also been found in several cases .
PURPOSE : To report on bevacizumab treatment for radiation retinopathy affecting the macula .
A synergistic anti - tumour effect of L - NAME is observed in combination with melphalan and / or TNF using ILP .
Overexpression of these proteins is independent of the transcriptional upregulation of their genes , and occurs only in highly malignant breast cancer cells .
Recently , we reported candidate target genes of Evi - 1 shared in HSCs and leukemic cells using gene expression profiling analysis .
Caspase activation , mitochondrial depolarization , and cytochrome c release were increased under these conditions .
Peritoneal NOS activity is increased fivefold in long - term PD patients compared with control subjects .
Inhibition of glucose metabolism enhanced killing of myeloid leukemia U937 , cervical carcinoma HeLa , and breast carcinoma MCF - 7 cells upon death receptor ligation .
Excitotoxic damage due to striatal infusion of an NMDA - receptor agonist ( cis - 2 , 4 - methanoglutamate ) was also markedly inhibited ( 71 % ) by injection of the IL - 1ra .
LDH5 overexpression in cancer cells induces an upregulated glycolytic metabolism and reduced dependence on the presence of oxygen .
Circulating endothelial cells and their precursors declined and remained low in responders , whereas plasma vascular endothelial growth factor trended to decline in responding patients but increase in nonresponders .
One of the most common signatures of highly malignant tumors is their capacity to metabolize more glucose to lactic acid than their tissues of origin .
In a first step , proteins were selected which showed a relationship to lymph node involvement .
To address this issue , an activated neu oncogene was introduced into an immortalized nontumorigenic human breast epithelial cell line ( 184B5 ) .
Treatment of ovarian cancer cell lines with recombinant LL - 37 stimulated proliferation , chemotaxis , invasion and matrix metalloproteinase expression .
Previously we observed that neural cell adhesion molecule ( NCAM ) deficiency in beta tumor cells facilitates metastasis into distant organs and local lymph nodes .
Furthermore , in support of these findings , we found that sunitinib induced a reduction in the expression of the antiapoptotic molecule Bcl - 2 as well as dephosphorylation of the proapoptotic molecule BAD , which results in the activation of BAD in these cells .
The results showed that thrombospondin is expressed in normal prostate but not in prostate tumours in a rat model .
Furthermore , elevated expression of VEGFR - 1 facilitates the establishment of hematogenous metastases in gastric cancer .
In this study , the role of the proprotein convertase furin in PLAG1 proto - oncogene - induced salivary gland tumorigenesis was investigated .
ARD1 is up - regulated in human PCa cell lines and primary tumor biopsies .
Thus , such a resonating cross - talk can amplify Hedgehog signaling , resulting in molecular chatter that overall promotes tumor progression .
These findings advance our understanding of the functions of N - myc in neuroblastoma cells .
In all cases , only inhibition of PKCalpha inhibited each of these functions when compared to the inhibition of PKCbeta .
Tumor angiogenesis might contribute to tumor malignant progression by inhibiting spontaneous apoptosis in LSCC .
Moreover , computed tomography ( CT ) showed a complete regression of the extensive lymph node and diffuse lung metastases , for a complete response ( CR ) .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : In the present study , we investigated the effects of 2ME2 alone and in combination with paclitaxel , an active agent in recurrent or advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
These findings indicate that disparate mechanisms of enhancing or inhibiting apoptosis exist in myeloid leukemic cells related to environmental conditions , including HGF - regulated cellular synthesis of distinct proteins and mRNA .
Interestingly , the level of cyclin D3 protein , known as an activator of G ( 1 ) to S phase transition in the cell cycle , was aberrantly high in cells overexpressing PLD1 and PLD2 compared with control cells .
Spontaneous metastasis indicates a possible reverse correlation .
Additional analysis of the mechanism of action of Go6976 ( RT - PCR , Western blots , and immunohistochemistry ) of the changes in the phosphorylated and nonphosphorylated forms of PKCalpha in the cell membrane and cytoplasm confirmed the specificity of PKCalpha inhibition by Go6976 .
Because islet inflammation may originate from endothelial cells , we assessed the expression of selected genes involved in endothelial cell activation in islets from a spontaneous model of type 2 diabetes , the Goto - Kakizaki ( GK ) rat .
The pentapeptide SFLLR , like thrombin , caused a marked stimulation of angiogenesis in the CAM .
The steady - state extraction ratio of enalapril , a substrate that enters the liver rapidly via Oatp1a1 and primarily undergoes metabolism by the carboxylesterases , was unaffected by liver metastasis at week 4 regardless of its delivery via the portal vein or hepatic artery into the perfused liver preparations .
Bcl - 2 protected SH - EP cells from death during nutritional deprivation by activating energetically advantageous oxidative phosphorylation .
The erbA / myb IRES virus exhibited a 5 - 10 - fold higher transformed colony forming efficiency than the erbA IRES virus in the blastoderm assay .
Furthermore , Trib1 by itself is a novel myeloid oncogene , enhancing phosphorylation of ERK , resulting in inhibition of apoptosis .
METHODS : Thirty - two male wistar rats randomly divided into four groups .
The presence of microvascular proliferation leads to the histological diagnosis of glioblastoma multiforme .
One such factor , vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , is considered to exert a potent angiogenic activity , as indicated by immunohistochemical and molecular evidence .
METHODS : After immunohistochemical staining , light microscope was used for counting macrophages and automated image analysis quantification was used to determine VEGF - C expression , which was reflected by positive index ( PI ) .
Thymidylate synthase ( TS ) and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase ( DPD ) are 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) metabolizing enzymes and are involved in the sensitivity of carcinoma patients to 5 - FU .
At this writing , heparin appears to be the principal mast cell factor responsible for this effect on capillary endothelial cells .
Taken together , our results suggest that the induction of de novo lipid synthesis by androgen requires the transcriptional up - regulation of HK2 and PFKFB2 , and phosphorylation of PFKFB2 generated by the PI3K / Akt signalling pathway to supply the source for lipogenesis from glucose in prostate cancer cells .
Here , we show that the proto - oncogene N - myc promoter was down - regulated by WT1 in transient transfection assays .
OBJECT : Endothelial proliferation has been recognized as a marker of high - grade or aggressive glioma .
We previously reported the cloning and characterization of a HBV insert from a Chinese HCC .
TUNEL assay and microvessel density was assessed to evaluate apoptosis and angiogenesis .
The study population comprised 23 patients with histopathologically proven primary brain tumours ; 14 had high - grade gliomas , and nine low - grade brain neoplasms .
However , VEGF has also been shown to be neuroprotective across several experimental paradigms , and hence could potentially protect vulnerable cells from damage associated with seizures .
RESULTS : The expression rates of Merlin protein in NSCLC and normal lung tissue sections were 73 . 33 % and 15 . 56 % , respectively ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
CONCLUSION : Our results show the effectiveness of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS as an angiogenesis inhibitor in suppressing tumor growth during different stages of tumor progression , validating the application of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS gene therapy in treatment against lung cancer .
We conclude that increased PAI - 1 antigen levels may be associated with a decreased survival in patients with SCC .
The existence of proteins encoded by the 3 ' region has been postulated on the basis of multiple open reading frames .
We could imagine that it also plays a role in adjuvant chemotherapy effectiveness since , perhaps not coincidentally , this is most beneficial for premenopausal node - positive patients .
This finding may be explained by a stimulatory effect of GM - CSF and IL - 3 on ara - C phosphorylating enzymes and a more rapid incorporation of ara - CTP into the DNA of leukemic blasts .
Sunitinib markedly induced apoptosis of PC12 cells in a dose - dependent and time - dependent manner .
Inhibitors of angiogenesis hold potential in the treatment of cancer and other diseases where the disease is caused or maintained by the inappropriate growth of blood vessels .
Nitric oxide synthase inhibition results in synergistic anti - tumour activity with melphalan and tumour necrosis factor alpha - based isolated limb perfusions .
Hypermethylation of final sigma is functionally important , because treatment of final sigma - non - expressing breast cancer cell lines with the drug 5 - aza - 2 ' - deoxycytidine resulted in demethylation of the gene and synthesis of final sigma mRNA .
We report that curcumin induces cell shrinkage , chromatin condensation , and DNA fragmentation , characteristics of apoptosis , in immortalized mouse embryo fibroblast NIH 3T3 erb B2 oncogene - transformed NIH 3T3 , mouse sarcoma S180 , human colon cancer cell HT - 29 , human kidney cancer cell 293 , and human hepatocellular carcinoma Hep G2 cells , but not in primary culture of mouse embryonic fibroblast C3H 10T1 / 2 , rat embryonic fibroblast , and human foreskin fibroblast cells in a concentration - and time - dependent manner .
Multiple myeloma , an incurable plasma cell malignancy , is characterized by altered cellular metabolism and resistance to apoptosis .
Blockage of the Akt pathway attenuated CREB activation , and a decrease in CREB expression reduced cellular migration / invasion and activity of MMPs .
This contrasts with recent evidence suggesting that the Wave complex may function as an invasion suppressor in epithelial cancers .
The aim of this study was to investigate the expression profile of AQPs in human breast cancer and its significance .
Interestingly , c - Ski overexpression resulted in extensive acceleration of the growth of subcutaneous xenografts in BALB / c nu / nu female mice ( 6 weeks of age ) .
During normal skin function , p53 in the keratinocyte is a transducer of the skin tanning signal and an essential component of what is effectively a keratinocyte - melanocyte signaling cycle that regulates skin pigmentation .
The increased energy expended by the host to synthesize substrate , which is utilized by the tumor , is a potential cause of cancer cachexia .
VEGF and p53 expressions were observed in 40 % and 53 % of the tumors , respectively .
The increased rate of glucose transport is dependent on the activity of pp60src , the transforming protein of Rous sarcoma virus .
Similar to tumors expressing dominant - negative TGF - beta type II receptor , histochemical studies revealed less fibrosis and increased angiogenesis in xenografted tumors expressing c - Ski compared to control tumors .
5 - Azacytidine , a potent DNA methylation inhibitor , induced growth of large colonies in soft agar cultures of Rat 6 or Rat 6 / c - myc cells .
We further show that down - regulation of caspase 3 via overexpression of RASSF1C reduces breast cancer cells ' sensitivity to the apoptosis inducing agent , etoposide .
These new functions of p53 are providing interesting possibilities for the development of novel therapies .
The relation between the expression of Merlin protein and the multiple factors of pathological type , gender , P - TNM stage , differentiation and lymph node metastasis was analyzed .
Marked angiogenesis is induced by implantation of a chamber containing RENCA cells into mice .
Surprisingly , analysis of K5CDK4 and K5CDK2 transgenic mouse embryos showed CDK4 and CDK2 expression not only in the expected tissues , but also in the adenohypophysis .
Angiogenesis has an essential role in promoting and supporting tumor growth and it is an important therapeutic target .
In patients with atherosclerotic vascular diseases , collateral vessels bypassing major arterial obstructions have frequently been observed .
No significant correlation was found between topo I protein expression and sex , Dukes ' stage , differentiation grade , survival status , p53 status , and PCNA status .
However , the mechanism of action and the efficiency in inducing apoptosis of these two proteins are not similar .
The Kaposi ' s sarcoma - associated herpesvirus ( KSHV ) encodes a G protein - coupled receptor ( vGPCR ) that has been implicated in the initiation of Kaposi ' s sarcoma , identifying vGPCR as an attractive target for preventing Kaposi ' s sarcoma .
p53 does so through the induction of genes leading to growth arrest or apoptosis .
Both cis - 9 , trans - 11 and trans - 10 , cis - 12 CLA isomers were effective in inhibiting angiogenesis in vitro in a dose - dependent fashion .
Immunohistochemical and in situ hybridization studies revealed the presence of IGF - I / II - IGF - IR ligands and mRNA transcripts in embryonic lungs as early as 4 wk gestation .
There was a significant positive relationship between PAI - 1 levels and T - stage ( p = < 0 . 05 ) in the total group , and survival status ( p = < 0 . 05 ) in the SCC subgroup alone .
Also , rk - 2 diminished the expression of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 in the mouse lung which induces tumor metastasis and angiogenesis .
We used a cellular model of tumor invasion to investigate the effect of activated platelets on the human ovarian cancer cell line , SKOV3 .
CONCLUSIONS : We have established a model to study the regulation of angiogenesis by human adipose tissue .
The initial wave of ERK activity ( 5 - 120 min ) was refractory to integrin antagonists , whereas the sustained activity ( 4 - 20 h ) depended on integrin alphavbeta3 , but not beta1 integrins .
Conversely , tumor cell expression of NCAM in a fibrosarcoma model ( T241 ) improved pericyte recruitment and increased perivascular deposition of ECM molecules .
First clinical control with second angiography was performed 6 weeks after irradiation , then in 3 - month intervals .
In a variety of cell types , the glycolipid - anchored urokinase receptor ( uPAR ) is colocalized pericellularly with components of the plasminogen activation system and endocytosis receptors .
In vivo studies after dosing on Days 6 , 7 , and 8 demonstrated the same reductions in nucleic acid synthesis and a moderate reduction in protein synthesis .
However , the underlying mechanism is poorly understood .
The cell type specific glycosylation protects Sp1 and HIF1alpha from proteosome degradation and plays an important and novel role in the regulation of VEGF in DCN transfected MCE cells .
Development of a mouse model for lymph node metastasis with endometrial cancer .
Induction of these genes also occurred in diverticulitis and digestive neoplasms such as gastric and esophageal carcinomas .
Netrin - 1 up - regulation in inflammatory bowel diseases is required for colorectal cancer progression .
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS : Adipose tissue samples from visceral ( VAT ) and subcutaneous ( SAT ) sites , obtained from 36 obese patients ( mean BMI 46 . 5 kg / m ( 2 ) ) during bariatric surgery , were layered on chick chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) .
An understanding of the relative contribution of various pathways in the development of tumor vasculature is critical for developing effective and selective therapeutic approaches .
Recent studies have shown that 14 - 3 - 3zeta interacted with other key cellular proteins involved in the tumor development and progression .
In addition , cisplatin markedly reduced MMP2 activity in both conditioned media and cell lysates , increased p38 MAPK and JNK phosphorylation , but did not affect ERK phosphorylation .
Together , these data further establish the involvement of endothelial PECAM - 1 in angiogenesis and suggest that , in vivo , PECAM - 1 may stimulate endothelial cell motility by promoting the formation of filopodia .
[ Effect of osteopontin silencing by lentivirus - mediated delivery of siRNA on glioma cell invasion and apoptosis ] .
Invasion is the hallmark of tumor malignancy .
Perlecan is a ubiquitous pericellular proteoglycan ideally placed to mediate cell signaling events controlling migration , proliferation , and differentiation .
These cells , but not control cells , showed altered growth properties and anchorage - independent growth in soft agar .
The results showed that betulin significantly inhibited cell viability in cervix carcinoma HeLa cells , hepatoma HepG2 cells , lung adenocarcinoma A549 cells , and breast cancer MCF - 7 cells with IC ( 50 ) values ranging from 10 to 15 microg / mL .
These data complement work that shows that HPV16 E7 also interacts with p600 , and that this interaction correlates with the ability of HPV16 E7 to transform cells .
Coronary collateral circulation ( CCC ) was analyzed according to the Rentrop system .
CD40 expression on human lung cancer correlates with metastatic spread .
Our experiments demonstrate that insulin - like growth factor I indeed induces hexokinase gene expression in a concentration and time dependent manner in two cancer cell lines we studied .
Coexpression of PIM - 1KD and PIM - 2KD abrogated growth factor - independent growth of Ba / F3 transformed by several PTKs , including BCR / ABL .
In normal gastric mucosa , C / EBPbeta expression was restricted to cells in the proliferative zone .
Endosialin / TEM 1 / CD248 is a pericyte marker of embryonic and tumor neovascularization .
These were pigmented , and maintained expression of tyrosinase , TRP - 1 , cytokeratin and SV40 Tag .
Bee venom induces apoptosis and inhibits expression of cyclooxygenase - 2 mRNA in human lung cancer cell line NCI - H1299 .
The role of organ vascularization and lipoplex - serum initial contact in intravenous murine lipofection .
We especially focused on the role of Crk adaptor protein in EphB - mediated signaling .
VEGF165 also mediated the binding of a soluble NRP1 dimer to cells expressing KDR only , confirming the formation of such complexes .
RESULTS : All patients completed therapy and tolerability was good .
Daily i . v . injections of HAH - cortisol at doses causing no apparent toxicity retarded the growth of solid s . c .
After GM - CSF or IL - 3 , a 1 . 2 - to 2 . 4 - fold increase in S - phase cells was observed in nine of 14 GM - CSF and seven of 11 IL - 3 cases .
Highly specialized cells , the thyrocytes , express a thyroid - specific set of genes for thyroglobulin ( Tg ) , thyroperoxidase , and the transcription factors TTF - 1 , TTF - 2 , and Pax - 8 .
Furthermore , mouse embryonic fibroblasts required the presence of B16F0 cells to express Patched in a co - culture assay system .
E mu cyclin D1 transgenic mice show only very subtle alterations in the cycling behaviour of B - cell populations in the bone marrow compared with normal mice and do not develop lymphoid tumours .
The hypothesis was that therapy with NH ( 2 ) - terminally truncated form of galectin - 3 ( galectin - 3C ) will be efficacious for reduction in tumor growth and for inhibition of metastases .
Induction of Id - 1 by FGF - 2 involves activity of EGR - 1 and sensitizes neuroblastoma cells to cell death .
The role of syndecans in disease and wound healing .
However , re - expression of wt - p53 in EU - 4 cells could restore the doxorubicin - p53 - survivin pathway , resulting in significantly decreased survivin expression and increased apoptosis in these cells after doxorubicin treatment .
Angiogenesis plays an important role in many types of cancer .
RESULTS : No correlation was found between tumor prognosis and EGFR , ICAM - 1 or Fas .
BACKGROUND : The murine nm23 gene suppresses the metastatic behavior of malignant rodent tumor lines , and reduced nm23 expression correlates with increased likelihood of lymph node metastases in human breast cancers .
No [ 13C ] glucose utilization was detected in H4 spheroids , but uptake of alanine and accumulation of labeled lactate , glutamate and glutamine indicated oxidation via the tricarboxylic acid ( TCA ) cycle .
Use of uteroglobin for the engineering of polyvalent , polyspecific fusion proteins .
Vascular abnormalities in the retina were compared between patients with vascularized ( n = 34 , group 1 ) and nonvascularized ( n = 7 , group 2 ) PED on indocyanine green angiography and correlated with the size of the PED and the presence of serous retinal detachment .
This assay allows exploration of angiogenesis in fat tissue .
It was the aim of this study to compare the value of measurement of glucose metabolism with that of measurement of 123I - IMT uptake for the non - invasive grading of brain tumours .
Interestingly , we find that the deletion of miR - BHRF1 - 2 reduced the expression level of miR - BHRF1 - 3 and possibly that of miR - BHRF1 - 1 , demonstrating that the expression of one miRNA can potentiate the expression of other miRNAs located in the same cluster .
Prostate - specific membrane antigen regulates angiogenesis by modulating integrin signal transduction .
Collectively , these results suggest an important role for furin in PLAG1 - induced salivary gland tumorigenesis in mice .
On strips of all widths , ECs tended to migrate in the direction of strips .
Hypoxic induction of HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma lines is mediated by stress activated protein kinases .
Matrix metalloproteinase activity and immunohistochemical profile of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 during human dermal wound healing .
Anoikis was preceded by induction and transloction of a 45 - kDa clusterin isoform to the nucleus .
sVAP - 1 levels were assayed by enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay .
INTRODUCTION : Increased angiogenesis in bone marrow is one of the characteristics of chronic myeloid leukaemia ( CML ) , a clonal myeloproliferative disorder that expresses a chimeric bcr / abl protein .
Cells which had been grown in medium containing 1 ng / ml TGF - beta developed colony - forming capacity in soft agar containing epidermal growth factor .
In contrast , less than 5 % of the DNA was fragmented in cells incubated with GM - CSF plus FBS or GM - CSF alone .
Serum VEGF protein levels were upregulated in stage III .
Adaptive landscapes and emergent phenotypes : why do cancers have high glycolysis ?
The inhibition of cultured myoblast differentiation by the simian virus 40 large T antigen occurs after myogenin expression and Rb up - regulation and is not exerted by transformation - competent cytoplasmic mutants .
BACKGROUND : Inhibition of angiogenesis reverses rodent obesity .
The tumor vascular network is the result of pro - angiogenic and inhibitory factors as well as of the interaction between endothelial cells and extracellular matrix .
Nevertheless , the repression of VEGF - C was lost in mutant VHL cell lines under hypoxia .
CONCLUSIONS : Retinal vasculopathies may be observed in eyes with PED and are detectable by indocyanine green and fluorescein angiography .
Consequently , cells were more rigid and show reduced motility .
DMBA maxima were significantly higher than those of DMBA + radiation .
The results indicated that exogenous lactate was the major substrate for oxidative metabolism .
Finally , we discuss future directions for identifying the appropriate patients for therapy , developing reliable markers of efficacy of treatment , and combating resistance to Hedgehog pathway inhibitors .
RESULTS : The apoptosis rate of the old donor - derived MSCs group was significantly higher than that of the young donor - derived MSCs group under conditions of ischemia and anoxia ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
Experiments using the tsA 58 allele of the SV 40 - A gene have demonstrated that the SV 40 large T - antigen is strictly required both for immortalization and induction anchorage independence of cells .
One 9 - year - old boy with bilateral microcarcinoma already had a lymph node metastasis .
Expression of TSP - 1 is up - regulated by the tumor suppressor gene , p53 , and down - regulated by oncogenes such as Myc and Ras .
The identification of Erk1 , 2 as triggered signaling in the lesions may be valuable for the development of effective therapy for this disease .
Given that AR - mediated gene regulation is enhanced by AR coregulators , inactivation of those coregulators is emerging as a promising therapy for prostate cancer ( PCa ) .
Circulating endothelial cells in malignant disease .
The aim of this study was to compare angiogenesis parameters in low nuclear grade ( n = 87 ) vs high nuclear grade CC - RCC ( n = 63 ) .
In particular , VEGF - C seems to play a key role in prostate cancer metastasis .
Acute ethanol exposure disrupts VEGF receptor cell signaling in endothelial cells .
Paradoxically , OSM can also suppress the growth of normal cells and certain tumor - derived cell lines .
Sanguinarine induces apoptosis of human osteosarcoma cells through the extrinsic and intrinsic pathways .
These two enzymes were also found to have specificity for gelatin .
Taken together , these results demonstrate that overexpression of TIMP - 3 can inhibit angiogenesis and associated tumor growth , and that the antiangiogenic effects of TIMP - 3 appear to be mediated through the inhibition of functional capillary morphogenesis .
Rofecoxib was used for eight acute haemarthrosis , four target joints , seven cases of synovitis and 12 episodes of pain .
It is also expressed by many types of tumour cell and has been associated with metastasis and poor clinical outcome in a number of cancers .
In this study , the aim was to investigate the effect of phenolic acids found abundantly in vegetables , i . e . gallic acid ( GA ) , caffeic acid ( CA ) and protocatechuic acid ( PCA ) , on the inhibition of gastric adenocarcinoma ( AGS ) cell metastasis .
The TGF - beta type II receptor in chronic myeloid leukemia : analysis of microsatellite regions and gene expression .
Clusterin gene expression is potently induced in experimental models in which apoptosis is activated , such as rat prostate involution following castration .
We undertook this study to test the hypothesis that Fas - FasL - mediated apoptosis plays a role in IL - 12 - induced tumor regression .
Moreover , the conditioned medium from TFs was found to be able to promote ESCC tumor cell growth , migration , and invasion in vitro .
When melanin biosynthesis is genetically disrupted in skin of white complexion , we propose that this cycle operates as a promoter of melanocyte proliferation .
Using human neuroblastoma cell line , SK - N - MC , we found that treatment of these cells with FGF - 2 resulted in early induction of both Id - 1 mRNA and protein .
As expected , Ang II - induced sFlt - 1 secretion resulted in the inhibition of endothelial cell migration and in vitro tube formation .
c - Ski , originally identified as a proto - oncogene product , is an important negative regulator of transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - beta family signaling through interaction with Smad2 , Smad3 , and Smad4 .
The results suggest that in this strain , the malate - citrate shuttle is not an effective pathway for transferring glycolytic reducing equivalents from cytosol to mitochondria .
Reduced oxygen tension has been shown to increase VEGF production by induction of the transcription factor hypoxia inducible factor 1 alpha ( HIF - 1alpha ) .
Furthermore , we found that p130 ( Cas ) , but not paxillin , recruited Crk to the nascent focal complex .
PTEN promoter hypermethylation is a major epigenetic silencing mechanism leading to activation of angiogenesis in tumors .
In 20 RCC patients , serum samples were obtained separately from the bilateral renal veins .
CONCLUSION : Abnormal E - cadherin expression is a possible marker of submucosal invasion in differentiated - type early gastric cancer and absent beta - catenin staining could be used as a predictor of lymph node metastasis in both types .
In addition , we also report a high frequency of cryptic chromosomal RUNX1 translocation to a novel recently described gene partner , PRDM16 on chromosome 1p36 , for 3 ( 21 . 4 % ) of 14 investigated patients : 2 myeloid BC CMLs and , for the first time , 1 therapy - related BCR - ABL + ALL .
Surprisingly , when injected into chicken embryos in the presence of helper virus , both viruses induced an erythroleukemia in about half of the animals .
Serum soluble vascular adhesion protein - 1 is a valuable prognostic marker in gastric cancer .
Activation of protein kinase C ( PKC ) induces phenotypic changes in the morphology of microvascular endothelial cells that affect major functions of the microvasculature .
Constitutively nuclear FOXO3a localization predicts poor survival and promotes Akt phosphorylation in breast cancer .
Thus , tumors behave like wounds that fail to heal .
There was also a statistically significant difference regarding fibrosis between groups 1 and 4 .
HKa and D5 inhibit bovine pulmonary artery endothelial cell ( BPAE ) or human umbilical vein endothelial cell chemotaxis in the modified - Boyden chamber in response toVEGF or S1P .
v - Src morphologically transformed MEFs lacking SWAP - 70 , but growth of the transformed cells in culture was slower than that of cells supplemented with exogenous SWAP - 70 .
Histological venous invasion ( p less than 0 . 01 ) and distant metastasis ( p less than 0 . 05 ) were significantly correlated with p53 protein expression .
Mechanisms for the magnolol - induced cell death of CGTH W - 2 thyroid carcinoma cells .
The dominant negative mutant of Rac1 completely inhibited ephrin - B1 - induced membrane ruffling and focal complex assembly .
METHODS : Receptor proteins were visualized by immunohistochemistry on 5 - mum sections of paraffin - embedded tissue .
Conditioned media from insulin - treated RPE cells were assayed for VEGF protein and capillary endothelial cell proliferation .
Slight variations are caused by drug treatment in tumor - bearing mice as compared with untreated tumor - bearing controls ; the pattern of effects of the selective antimetastatic agents does not differ from that of the reference cytotoxic compound used , cyclophosphamide .
Ovarian cancers overexpress the antimicrobial protein hCAP - 18 and its derivative LL - 37 increases ovarian cancer cell proliferation and invasion .
The evaluation of immunostaining of Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 was analyzed in 10 different tumor fields , and the mean percentage of tumor cells with positive staining was evaluated .
Our study reveals a hitherto unrecognized link between p53 and IFN - alpha / beta in tumour suppression and antiviral immunity , which may have therapeutic implications .
Recently , considerable attentions have been devoted to the physiological roles of angiopoietin ( Ang ) - 1 and - 2 as regulatory factors of VEGF .
METHODS : Tumor biopsy specimens and serum were obtained from 37 neuroblastoma patients ; adrenal biopsy sections and sera of 7 normal children served as controls .
Integrin alpha5beta1 immobilized on a ProteoChip was used to screen new antagonistic peptides from multiple hexapeptide sub - libraries of the positional scanning synthetic peptide combinatorial library ( PS - SPCL ) .
Recent reports suggest that elevated levels of plasminogen activator inhibitor - 1 ( PAI - 1 ) may contribute to tumour progression .
RESULTS : LOH of D10S541 , D10S583 and D10S1687 was found in 37 . 5 % ( 21 / 56 ) of advanced gastric cancers .
The corresponding transcripts in KE and A - 1235 cells contain 1053 additional nucleotides representing an in - frame duplication of exons 18 through 25 which encode the entire TK region and a portion of the CAIN domain .
Ang - 2 - deficient tumor vessels had higher pericyte coverage indices .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) in seizures : a double - edged sword .
These investigations demonstrate transformation of human ECs to an overtly malignant phenotype .
The initial rate of 14CO2 release from D - [ 1 - 14C ] glucose supplied in the medium was much greater for L . Se ( + ) or K . Se ( + ) cells than for their respective Se ( - ) counterparts , consistent with greater hexose monophosphate shunt activity in the former .
Treatment with anti - Fas , however , significantly decreased Fas - c - erbB2 and Fas - c - met association .
Manipulating angiomiRs in the settings of pathological vascularization represents a new therapeutic approach .
The results of this study suggest that a subclinical cumulative dose of 900 cGy is the threshold for impaired tissue revascularization provided that treatment is delivered immediately after implantation over a 48 - hour interval .
Overexpression of NRP1 by prostate tumor cells in vivo results in increased tumor angiogenesis and growth .
High expression of c - Ski has been found in some cancers , including gastric cancer .
METHODS : Primary lung cancers ( n = 269 ) and non neoplastic lung tissue ( n = 35 ) were tested for LDH5 expression by immunohistochemistry using a polyclonal LDH5 antibody ( ab53010 ) .
RESULTS : Opticin was immunolocalised to the basal cell surface and basement membrane material of the non - pigmented CBE in nine donor eyes as well as four hyperplastic lesions of the CBE ( Fuchs ' s adenoma ) .
Hyperfibrinogenemia is associated with lymphatic as well as hematogenous metastasis and worse clinical outcome in T2 gastric cancer .
PP also resulted in less connective tissue formation and foreign - body reaction than PF and PS prostheses .
Carcinogenesis and transcriptional regulation through Maf recognition elements .
Among the pathways involved in pericyte recruitment during embryonic development , the contribution of platelet - derived growth factor B and sphingosine 1 - phosphate is confirmed in tumour angiogenesis .
These data strongly implicate the BR - SMADs as part of a critical developmental pathway in ovaries and testis that , when disrupted , leads to malignant transformation .
These results suggest that A5 - 1 will be a potent inhibitor of neovascularization .
This resulted in formation of tumors , which were pigmented and of epithelial origin .
Osteopontin ( OPN ) is a secreted adhesive glycophosphoprotein expressed by several cell types .
Microvessel density ( MVD ) was determined by counting microvessels in tumor sections stained for Factor VIII - related antigen .
Adenovirus - mediated p53 gene transfer is ineffective in causing apoptosis in glioma cells that retain wild - type p53 genotype or overexpress the p21 protein .
Several regulatory and signaling molecules governing angiogenesis are of interest , including growth factors ( eg , vascular endothelial growth factor , platelet - derived growth factor , fibroblast growth factor , and epidermal growth factor ) , receptor tyrosine kinases , and transcription factors such as hypoxia inducible factor , as well as molecules involved in mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) and phosphoinositide 3 - kinase ( PI3K ) signaling .
Chondrocyte - DegraPol constructs were cultured for 1 month with the medium before glycosaminoglycan assessment and histology .
The frequency of elevated bFGF values among all groups was statistically significant ( p = 0 . 002 ) , and the levels of bFGF in RDEB patients were significantly elevated compared with those of other groups ( p less than 0 . 05 ) .
However , the exact mechanism underlying the cytotoxic effects of pacitaxel , especially in the survival - signalling pathway , is poorly understood .
These results indicate the possibility that activation of angiogenic activity after resection of osteosarcoma tumors enhances progression of pulmonary metastasis .
We show here that constitutively active STAT3 acts as a master regulator of cell metabolism , inducing aerobic glycolysis and down - regulating mitochondrial activity both in primary fibroblasts and in STAT3 - dependent tumour cell lines .
In addition , our in vivo studies indicated that the lenti - BI - 1 - infected cells formed obvious tumours , while no tumours were formed by the control cells after subcutaneously injected into nude mice .
Infection with retroviruses containing transforming genes of the src and ras oncogene families led to rapid loss of epidermal growth factor dependence , in some cases , accompanied by alterations in cellular morphology .
Counteracting islet endothelial cell inflammation might be one way to ameliorate / prevent beta - cell dysfunction in type 2 diabetes .
Tumor size was measured every 3 days .
RAF265 , a novel B - Raf / vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 2 inhibitor , was evaluated in the preclinical setting for its ability to inhibit the uptake of PET tracers in the A375M ( B - Raf ( V600E ) ) human melanoma cell line .
The aims of the present study were to compare , in vitro and in vivo , the antiangiogenic and antitumor activities of metronomic irinotecan ( CPT - 11 ) , oxaliplatin ( L - OHP ) and 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) in colorectal cancer and to investigate the metronomic combination of these drugs .
Among these are vascular endothelial growth factor - A ( VEGF - A ) , the key angiogenic stimulant , and VEGF - C , a primary mediator of lymphangiogenesis .
In contrast , CH - 11 binds to Fas , but is unable to transmit the death signal beyond the plasma membrane suggesting a block at the DISC ( death inducing signaling complex ) .
Experimental drug therapy of peritumoral brain edema .
Application of clonal analysis .
This was associated with a approximately 60 % reduction in tumor - derived blood vessels by quantitative morphometry of CD31 - stained tumor areas , and appearance of endothelial cell apoptosis by internucleosomal DNA fragmentation in vivo .
The TB animals had significantly lower plasma glucose and higher blood lactic acid levels compared with NTB animals .
Here , we show that the N - acetyltransferase arrest - defect 1 protein ( ARD1 ) functions as a unique AR regulator in PCa cells .
To determine if hypoxic activation of these stress activated protein kinases regulated HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression , we assayed JNK1 and p38 activity in squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) lines grown under normoxic or hypoxic conditions .
Therefore , we confirmed the key findings by replicating these experiments in human neuroblastoma SK - N - SH cells .
Samples were assayed for glucose , lactate , and insulin concentrations and compared statistically with ten control dogs of similar weight and age undergoing an identical dextrose challenge .
This implies that enhancing Nrf2 activity is a promising method for thwarting cancer .
Raising the albino mice in the dark prevented both events .
Coexpression of vascular endothelial growth factor and p53 protein in squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus .
DNA damage , rearrangement , and mutation of the human genome are the basis of carcinogenesis and thought to be avoided at all costs .
To study Hedgehog signaling in vivo a hind limb tumor model with the B16F0 cell line was used .
Proof of principle of the combined diagnosis / treatment system design for performing dye - enhanced photocoagulation ( DEP ) in the clinical setting and determination of the minimum DEP laser energy needed to close CNV FVs was made in 11 AMD patients requiring treatment of CNV , but for whom other treatment was not appropriate .
METHODS : From June 2004 to December 2007 , 132 patients received diagnosis and treatment in our hospital .
These RNAs were not detected by Northern ( RNA ) hybridization in productively infected chicken embryo fibroblasts 48 h postinfection ; however , they were apparent 140 h postinfection .
We show that enhanced glycolysis is dependent on HIF - 1alpha up - regulation , while reduced mitochondrial activity is HIF - 1alpha - independent and likely caused by STAT3 - mediated down - regulation of mitochondrial proteins .
For electron microscopic examination the cell suspensions were then incubated with gold - labeled antirabbit antibody .
Structural changes were promoted by toxicity of glucose degradation products ( GDPs ) which are generated during heat sterilization in peritoneal dialysis fluids ( PDFs ) .
The mice that received Hoxa9 / Meis1 - transduced bone marrow cells developed acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) , and Trib1 , Evi1 , Ahi1 , Raralpha , Pitpnb , and AK039950 were identified as candidate cooperative genes located near common retroviral integration sites .
Here , we provide an overview of the many roles of RUNX1 in hematopoietic self - renewal and differentiation and summarize the information that is currently available on the many mechanisms of RUNX1 deregulation in human leukemia .
During these processes , proteolytic activities of tumor and stromal cells modify the extracellular matrix to produce a microenvironment suitable for their growth and migration .
Use of DNA microarray and small animal positron emission tomography in preclinical drug evaluation of RAF265 , a novel B - Raf / VEGFR - 2 inhibitor .
Disabling mutations and deletions of p53 occur in 50 % of human tumours .
Mutation of p53 may play an important role in the high proliferative activity of tumors in the RSCM group and H . pylori infection may be closely related to carcinogenesis in patients with RSC .
Disruption of Mitf blocked HGF - dependent increases in endogenous c - Met message and protein levels , indicating that HGF regulates its own receptor levels via Mitf .
Transformation - associated cytokine 9E3 / CEF4 is chemotactic for chicken peripheral blood mononuclear cells .
From these data , as well as earlier evidence demonstrating that the reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide ( NADH ) shuttle in these cells requires a transaminase step and is thus identified as the malate - aspartate shuttle ( W . V . V . Greenhouse and A . L . Lehninger , Cancer Res . , 36 : 1392 - 1396 , 1976 ) , metabolic flux diagrams were constructed for the five cell lines .
A reduction in alpha - catenin expression and p53 overexpression correlated to lymph node metastases , respectively .
The regulation of cell survival functions by Pak1 - DLC1 interaction represents a novel mechanism by which a signaling kinase might regulate the cancerous phenotypes .
We generated monoclonal antibodies that target FGF - BP protein and used them as a tool to evaluate frequency and pattern of FGF - BP expression during the malignant progression of pancreas and colorectal carcinoma in archival tissue samples .
A 71 - year - old woman was admitted to our hospital because of breathlessness .
All wounds were fully re - epithelialized by 10 days post - injury .
Hypermethylation was also frequently observed in a large series of bladder tumors ( 83 . 1 % , n = 804 ) .
METHODS : Immunohistochemical staining with D2 - 40 and CD34 was performed on formalin - fixed , paraffin - embedded tissue sections of 254 invasive breast tumors of 247 patients with node negative and node positive early breast cancer .
Our study indicates that 1 ) Ca2 + entry in pulmonary endothelial cells through SOCs produces cell shape change that is dependent on site - specific rearrangement of the microfilamentous cytoskeleton and 2 ) Trp1 may be a component of pulmonary endothelial SOCs .
In the aqueous fluid , VEGF levels were increased in diabetics ( mean values : 501 vs . 367 pg / ml ; p = 0 . 05 ) , compared to controls .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : The tissues were stained with monoclonal antibodies to EGFR , TGF - alpha and Ki - 67 .
In contrast , both HER2 ( 4 / 12 ; 33 % ) and B ( 1 ) R ( 1 / 12 ; 8 . 3 % ) showed a low expression in invasive gallbladder carcinomas .
Together , our findings demonstrate a novel role of TSP - 1 to inhibit tumor - stroma reaction that could be attributed to the blockage of activated fibroblasts from invading cancer cells .
Growth state - dependent regulation of protein kinase C in normal and transformed murine cells .
The hybrid cells , however , exhibited normal morphology , anchorage requirement for proliferation , and largely extended latency periods of tumorigenicity in newborn rats .
Overexpression of DLC1 but not DLC1 - Ser88Ala mutant promotes cancerous properties of breast cancer cells .
The effects of these alterations in placental functional development appear to be irreversible .
In vitro and in vivo studies with losartan , small interfering RNA specific for calcineurin and FK506 demonstrated that Ang II - mediated sFlt - 1 release was via Ang II type 1 receptor activation and calcineurin signaling , respectively .
We tested this possibility with in vitro assays using human endothelial cells , as well as in a rodent hindlimb ischemia model .
OBJECTIVE : The expansion of adipose tissue is linked to the development of its vasculature .
LeTx also substantially inhibited the extracellular release of angioproliferative factors including vascular endothelial growth factor , interleukin - 8 , and basic fibroblast growth factor .
The interaction of virally derived and endogenous cellular proteins converges in deregulation of cell cycle progression and appears to be critical for the development of cervical cancers .
Although in vivo studies have shown that such inhibition stems from complex interactions of immune cells and the production of IFN - gamma and other downstream angiostatic chemokines , the mechanisms involved are still poorly defined .
The simian virus 40 ( SV40 ) large tumor ( T ) antigen is sufficient to transform cells in cultures and induce tumors in experimental animals .
By SAGE ( serial analysis of gene expression ) analysis , we identified final sigma as a gene whose expression is 7 - fold lower in breast carcinoma cells than in normal breast epithelium .
This result indicates that CREB functions in the signaling pathway between Akt and MMP .
We observed a significantly increased risk of lymph node metastasis associated with the FAS - 1377 GA or AA polymorphism [ odds ratio ( OR ) = 4 . 16 , 95 % confidence interval ( CI ) = 1 . 10 to 15 . 74 ; P = 0 . 036 ] .
Perlecan was found to be anti - adhesive for platelets , however after removal of the HS chains attached to perlecan , platelet adhesion and aggregation were supported .
Following implantation within the striatum , the volume of the primary fibroblast grafts , stained immunohistochemically for fibronectin , does not differ significantly at 3 and 8 weeks .
We examined the expression of nm23 - H1 gene product in surgically resected 46 pairs of primary lung cancers and metastatic lymph nodes by immunohistochemistry .
This remodeling process seems to be mainly flow - mediated .
Three patients discontinued therapy .
Unlike the majority of somatic cells , in which hTERT and telomerase activity are generally silent , normal lymphocytes show transient physiological hTERT expression and telomerase activity according to their differentiation / activation status .
The interaction of neoplastic cells with the extracellular matrix is a critical event for the initiation of cancer invasion and metastasis .
The biologic relevance of increased NOS in long - term PD was demonstrated by enhanced nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity and a significant increase in vascular density and endothelial area in the peritoneum .
Double mutants developed oocytes and became sterile females that produced only aberrant embryos and showed elevated risk for invasive ovarian tumors .
Nerve growth factor ( NGF ) has been demonstrated to support survival and differentiation of neuroblastoma ( NB ) cells by activation of the TrkA receptor .
These findings identify c - MYC as an important molecular switch that alters the cellular response to OSM - mediated signaling from tumor suppressive to tumor promoting .
The p75 receptor of neurotrophins ( p75 ( NTR ) ) , which is scarcely present in healthy endothelial cells ( ECs ) , becomes strongly expressed by capillary ECs after induction of peripheral ischemia in type - 1 diabetic mice .
Normal adult vasculature is generally quiescent in nature , with endothelial cells dividing approximately every 10 years .
Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) , like other DNA tumor viruses , induces morphological transformation of cells in vitro and stimulates host cell macromolecular synthesis in infected cells .
The second most prevalent urological malignancy in middle aged and elderly men is bladder cancer , with 90 % of the cases being transitional cell carcinomas .
Coagulation function in patients with pancreatic carcinoma .
[ Altered expression of PTEN gene and LOH of its epigenetic microsatellite in gastric carcinoma ] .
Interestingly , both INK4 genes express alternative splicing variants .
Available data indicate that the timing of telomerase activation may allow the distinction of two different lymphomagenetic models : ( i ) an early activation of telomerase via exogenous regulators of hTERT , along with an increased lymphocyte growth and a subsequent selection of cells with increased transforming potential may characterize several virus - related lymphoid malignancies ; ( ii ) a progressive shortening of telomeres , leading to genetic instability which favors a subsequent activation of telomerase via endogenous regulators may occur in most virus - unrelated lymphoid tumors .
BX471 ( R - N - [ 5 - chloro - 2 - [ 2 - [ 4 ( 4 - fluorophenyl ) methyl ] - 2 - methyl - 1 - piperazinyl ] - 2 - oxoethoxy ] phenyl ] urea hydrochloric acid salt ) , a CCR1 antagonist , inhibits angiogenic properties of CCL16 , whereas blocking of CCR8 or desensitizing CCR2 , which are both well known receptors for CCL16 , did not abolish endothelial activation .
Additional grafted rats treated with spironolactone ( n = 6 ) or PBS ( n = 8 ) were sacrificed on day 12 for quantitative RT - PCR analysis for mechanistic studies .
Identification of a small region of the v - fos gene product that is sufficient for transforming potential and growth - stimulating activity .
In this study we demonstrate that exposure of primary cultures of cardiac and vascular cells to hypoxia or AdCA5 , an adenovirus encoding a constitutively active form of HIF - 1alpha , modulates the expression of genes encoding the angiogenic factors angiopoietin - 1 ( ANGPT1 ) , ANGPT2 , placental growth factor , and platelet - derived growth factor - B .
Thus , it is highly unlikely that the p53 molecule per se carries intrinsic or even associated kinase activities .
Therefore we aimed to study the effects of simvastatin ( Sim ) on malignant B cells derived from patients with CLL and mechanisms of action of the drug .
Here we have demonstrated that mechanical strain - dependent induction of the CCN1 gene involves signaling cascades through RhoA - mediated actin remodeling and the p38 stress - activated protein kinase ( SAPK ) .
In tumor studies , P18 was more effective in blocking the angiogenesis and growth of the prostate cancer than parental 34 - mer ; in the renal cell carcinoma , P18 strongly decreased angiogenesis and halted the progression of established tumors .
Treatment of cultured human endothelial cells with DAPT , a gamma secretase inhibitor , increased cell migration and sprout formation in response to VEGF stimulation with a biphasic dependence on DAPT concentration .
Western blots confirmed that LeTx treatment reduced the levels of phosphorylated extracellular signal - regulated kinase and p38 MAPK in vitro .
Genomic instability is one mechanism proposed to play a role in the disease progression of chronic myeloid leukemia ( CML ) .
Here , in order to characterize the role of the promoter that drives DSCR - 1s expression in mediating inducible expression in vivo and to determine the functional relevance of DSCR - 1s in inflammation , we targeted a DNA construct containing 1 . 7 kb of the human DSCR1s promoter coupled to the lacZ reporter to the hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase ( Hprt ) locus of mice .
p - XSC also decreases Akt phosphorylation as well as Akt - specific phosphorylation of the AR .
Tumour - specific distribution of BRCA1 promoter region methylation supports a pathogenetic role in breast and ovarian cancer .
Accordingly , the rate of elimination of abnormal proteins was lower in cells lacking a functional VHL gene than in wtVHL - expressing cells .
The hypothesis that modifications of activity and / or expression of nitric oxide synthase ( NOS ) isozymes might play a role in these modifications , via enhanced local production of nitric oxide , was tested in this study .
Prior studies showed enhancement of such carcinogenesis by repeated 20 rad head and neck X - radiation exposures , and it was proposed that one possible mechanism was radiogenic alteration of the functional microvasculature in a manner which favored subsequent tumor development .
A cohort of unspecified mesodermal cells differentiates into primitive endothelial cells , which migrate to and occupy positions within the stereotypical blueprint of the primitive vasculature .
In parallel , we assessed several human melanoma biopsy samples and found again that AKT2 was the predominantly activated AKT in these human melanoma biopsies .
Accumulating evidences indicate that receptor activator of NF - kB ligand ( RANKL ) is the ultimate extracellular mediator that stimulates osteoclast differentiation into mature osteoclasts .
These findings also illustrate an operational link between VPF / VEGF induction of EC gene expression and VPF / VEGF enhancement of microvascular permeability , suggesting that these distinct biological activities may act accordingly to stimulate EC migration during angiogenesis .
Parathyroid hormone - related protein ( PTHrP ) is a secreted factor expressed in almost all normal fetal and adult tissues .
In addition , the double staining was also used to determine VEGF - C expression in TAMs .
Formation of new bone during vertical distraction osteogenesis of the human mandible is related to the presence of blood vessels .
This study was designed to investigate the effect of EBV - LMP1 on related factors of metastasis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line CNE1 .
Cells transformed by Rous sarcoma virus release transforming growth factors .
Group 1 animals had the left buccal pouches painted three times weekly with 7 , 12 - dimethylbenz ( a ) anthracene ( DMBA ) for 14 weeks .
Angiogenesis defines the many steps involved in the growth and migration of endothelial cell - derived blood vessels .
Tie1 is an orphan tyrosine kinase receptor expressed almost exclusively in endothelial cells and is required for normal vascular development and maintenance .
Reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) produced in the course of cellular oxidative phosphorylation , and by activated phagocytic cells during oxidative bursts , exceed the physiological buffering capacity and result in oxidative stress .
Monitoring peroxide - induced changes in GSH and GSSG gave consistent results ; e . g . , glucose - depleted L . Se ( + ) cells exhibited a first order loss of GSH that was substantially faster than that of glucose - depleted L . Se ( - ) cells .
Almost all patients respond to G - CSF with increased neutrophils , reduced infections , and improved survival .
No statistically significant relationships were found between age at onset of MDS or AML and patient gender , G - CSF dose , or duration of G - CSF therapy .
Moreover , we observed an increase in apoptosis of latent gene - expressing cells after the pharmacologic deletion of the vGPCR - expressing cells .
Ectopic localization of mitochondrial ATP synthase : a target for anti - angiogenesis intervention ?
CONCLUSIONS : Intravitreal bevacizumab can be used to treat radiation retinopathy .
With the enhancement of FPC concentration , the authors observed chromatin condensation in some phases companying with the characteristic apoptosis .
However , in Apc mutation - induced intestinal tumors , inactivation of Hes1 alone was sufficient for reducing tumor cell proliferation and inducing differentiation of tumor cells into all types of intestinal epithelial cells , but without affecting the homeostasis of normal crypts owing to genetic redundancy .
In addition , ischemia induces expression of HIF1alpha in hypoxic tissue .
High levels of allele loss also were detected for chromosomes 8q ( 4 of 9 ; 44 % ) and 16p ( 5 of 6 ; 83 % ) and may indicate the presence of additional cellular genes whose functional loss is important in the development of HCCs .
RESULTS : IL - 12 - expressing RM - 9 prostate carcinoma cells transplanted into C57BL / J6 mice grew more slowly than control RM - 9 cells and vector control RM - 9 - Luc cells .
Nevertheless , for both viruses the leukemic blasts retained full factor dependence for growth .
Histological examination of ovarian corrosion casts indicated that NS - 398 inhibited the establishment of luteal capillary vessels following the injection of hCG .
Cells were perifused in the presence of 5 mM glucose , 0 . 5 mM glutamine or 5 mM glucose and 0 . 5 mM glutamine .
However , the maximum decrease approached 100 % in stationary cultures versus approximately 75 % in growing cells .
A similar result was observed in invasive carcinomas ( 0 / 12 ) .
Metastatic disease is one of the major causes of death from cancer in human beings .
Statistically significant differences were observed between groups 1 and 4 and between groups 1 and 3 regarding the hydroxyproline content of the abdominal wounds .
We also analysed the association of patients ' prognosis with clinical parameters and the histological classification of the carcinomatous component .
In vitro studies , the results indicated that DATS induced morphological changes and induction of apoptosis in CT26 cells .
CONCLUSION : In early - stage breast cancer patients , overexpression of c - erbB2 is a marker of lack of efficacy of adjuvant tamoxifen .
RESULTS : PLGA microspheres with an open - porous structure were formed .
Nevertheless , patients who achieved complete remission ( CR ) had a significantly lower median PE level compared to those who did not .
Thus , our results indicate that under appropriate conditions rho genes function as oncogenes and may have a role in the regulation of proliferation in fibroblast cells .
They establish cyclin D1 as a proto - oncogene whose activity appears to depend on a specific cell type as well as on a specific cooperating partner and link disturbances in the regulation of cell cycle progression to the development of human malignancies .
Expression of nm23 - H1 gene product in metastatic lymph nodes was also unrelated to patients survival .
Cancer stem cells ( CSC ) are predicted to be critical drivers of tumor progression due to their self - renewal capacity and limitless proliferative potential .
New bone formation was detected to be more rapid considering histologic parameters , in groups 3 and 4 at 4th and 16th weeks . Study demonstrates that PRP and PPP might have favorable effects on bone healing .
U - 995 is composed of two single peptides with molecular mass of 10 and 14 kDa , respectively .
Integration of HPV DNA frequently disrupts the E2 open reading frames , resulting in overexpression of the E6 and E7 oncoproteins and possibly causing genomic instability .
One additional event that appears to play a role in tumor progression is integration of HPV DNA into the host genome .
Evi - 1 associates with CtBP1 through one of the CtBP - binding consensus motifs within the region from amino acid 544 to 607 , and this association is required for the efficient inhibition of TGF - beta signaling .
Aflibercept ( AVE0005 ) : an alternative strategy for inhibiting tumour angiogenesis by vascular endothelial growth factors .
In order to study their relation to the metastatic profile and survival , we evaluated the association between pretreatment serum levels of S - 100beta , IL - 6 , IL - 10 and IL - 12 and metastatic site and survival in 50 patients with advanced melanoma who were to receive chemoimmunotherapy .
A greater accumulation of peroxidative products ( thiobarbituric acid - reactive substances ) , inflammation and decreased levels of GSH and total antioxidant reserves were also observed in the skin of DMBA - Cum - OOH - exposed mice .
Ba / F3 cells transformed to growth factor independence by various oncogenic PTKs ( TEL / JAK2 , TEL / TRKC , TEL / ABL , BCR / ABL , FLT3 - ITD , and H4 / PDGFbetaR ) show abundant expression of PIM - 1 and PIM - 2 .
Elevated expression of the junB proto - oncogene is essential for v - fos induced transformation of Rat - 1 cells .
Its suppression has also been shown to be associated with malignant transformation of epithelial cells .
Reverse transcription - polymerase chain reaction and Western blot assays were used to investigate expression of Bcl - 2 and Bax .
But little is known about the characteristics of young donor - derived MSCs transplanted to old patients with AMI .
Tissue blocks were obtained and immunoperoxidase staining was performed using the TTF - 1 antibody .
Inactivation of IGF - IR resulted in a loss of endothelial cells , accompanied by dramatic changes in fetal lung explant morphology .
Inhibition of the UV - induced activation of Erbb2 also resulted in milder epidermal hyperplasia , S - phase accumulation , and decreased levels of the cell cycle regulator Cdc25a , suggesting altered cell cycle regulation on inhibition of Erbb2 .
We assessed survivin expression in breast carcinomas correlating results with expression of other antiapoptotic ( bcl - 2 , bcl - x ) and proapoptotic ( bax ) markers , with prognostic parameters , and with prognosis .
CONCLUSIONS : Galectin - 3C is not overtly toxic , and is efficacious in reducing metastases and tumor volumes and weights in primary tumors in an orthotopic nude mouse model of human breast cancer .
Hepatitis B virus integration event in human chromosome 17p near the p53 gene identifies the region of the chromosome commonly deleted in virus - positive hepatocellular carcinomas .
Furthermore , we have searched for the underlying mechanisms of apoptosis by demonstrating apoptosis - related genes .
This protein is produced in large amounts by fibroblasts cultivated in vitro .
In the manual count analysis , there was no significant relation between MDM2 overexpression and outcome .
Thus , these data demonstrate cooperative mechanisms for VPF / VEGF regulation of EC migration involving the alphavbeta3 integrin , the alphavbeta3 ligand OPN , and thrombin cleavage of OPN .
14 - 3 - 3zeta might be used as prognostic biomarkers for NSCLC .
Ectopic PTTG overexpression in a representative ESCC cell line , EC9706 , increased in vitro cell migration and invasion and promoted in vivo lymph node metastasis .
Besides regulating leukocyte trafficking in normal and injured tissues , several chemokines may positively or negatively regulate angiogenesis .
Adenovirus 5 early region 1A ( E1A ) has been shown to exhibit high tumor suppressor activity , and gene therapy using E1A has been tested in clinical trials .
Infiltration of dendritic cells correlated negatively with distant lymph node metastases , clinical stage , and peritoneal invasion .
We demonstrate that a proteoglycan decorin ( DCN ) up - regulates the vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression with activation of VEGF regulating transcription factors Sp1 , hypoxia - inducible factor 1alpha ( HIF1alpha ) , and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 ( Stat3 ) via epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) , mitogen - activated protein kinase extracellular signal - regulated kinase 1 / 2 ( ERK1 / 2 ) , and protein kinase B ( AKT ) pathways in DCN transfected mouse cerebral endothelial ( MCE ) cells .
Apoptosis is detected with the TUNEL method .
Other anti - angiogenic therapies alter the immune response and endogeneous angiogenesis inhibitor levels .
Whereas homogeneous and intense immunoreactivity were observed in large and intermediate size blood vessels , heterogeneity of expression was found in capillaries .
Enoxaparine Na had no harmful effects on wound healing , and HBO therapy increased the process of wound healing .
As TGF - beta is a potent negative growth regulator of hematopoietic cells , investigations were undertaken to determine whether inactivation of the receptor by microsatellite alteration might be involved in the progression of CML .
Furthermore , in cultured ovarian carcinoma cells , Western blot revealed that PPARgamma and COX - 2 expression was regulated conversely as a result of stimulation by 15 - deoxy - Delta ( 12 , 14 ) PGJ ( 2 ) ( 15 - PGJ ( 2 ) ) , a PPARgamma activator .
As in prior studies , there were significant vascular volume differences between DMBA and DMBA + radiation groups of tumor - bearing cheek pouches .
Instead of cancer initiation , it is therefore likely that Tsg101 plays a more predominant role in the progression of a subset of spontaneously arising breast cancers .
Forty - seven specimens resected from patients with stage II and III squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) of the esophagus were studied using immunohistochemical staining .
An image analysis system was also used to quantify the proportion of tumor nuclei with MDM2 staining ( ACIS index ) and staining intensity .
Seventy - five patients underwent biopsies of carcinomas metastatic to the brain .
L - Carnitine ameliorates methotrexate - induced oxidative organ injury and inhibits leukocyte death .
Sequence analysis revealed that this gene had 95 % homology with the LMP sequence of the B95 - 8 strain .
c - myc is a major target that transduces Myb ' s proliferative signal , as shown by the ability of a c - Myc - estrogen receptor fusion protein alone to also reverse growth arrest in this system .
When the patients were divided into two groups according to their alpha - SMA expression using a cutoff point at the mean value of 8 . 48 % , the high alpha - SMA group had a significantly poorer overall survival rate ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
Stimulation of tumor angiogenesis was connected with about 2 - fold increase in intracellular level of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) .
This review focuses on the application of therapeutic angiogenesis for treating ischemic muscle disease and includes a critical evaluation of the parameters and limitations of current procedures .
BACKGROUND : CDC4 / FBXW7 , encoding a ubiquitin ligase , maps to 4q32 and has been implicated as a tumor suppressor gene and therapeutic target in many tumor types .
The latter effect persisted even with the late addition of CHX .
DESIGN : Differentially expressed proteins discovered between the two cell lines were identified by mass spectrometry .
We tested the epigenetic silencing hypothesis and evaluated the biological influence of KISS1 methylation on its expression and clinical relevance in bladder cancer .
Brain pericytes in culture had higher levels of endosialin / TEM 1 than TEMs - 2 , - 3 , - 4 , - 5 , - 7 , and - 8 .
Expression of thymidylate synthase and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase in primary oral squamous cell carcinoma and corresponding metastases in cervical lymph nodes : association with the metastasis suppressor CD82 .
Multivariate analysis revealed abnormal E - cadherin expression as an independent factor that correlated with submucosal invasion in early gastric cancer .
Similarly , mechanical overload - induced CCN1 gene expression in vivo was associated with nuclear localization of MRTF - A and enrichment of the CCN1 promoter with both MRTF - A and acetylated histone H3 .
Participation of p53 cellular tumour antigen in transformation of normal embryonic cells .
We did not found any mutation in de novo BCR - ABL + ALLs or lymphoid BC CML .
Immunostaining and Western blot revealed a more significant PTEN downregulation in PTEN - methylated CCMs in comparison to PTEN - unmethylated CCMs .
This collection of reviews at the front - edge of scientific knowledge focuses on host - tumor cell interactions , the disastrous consequences they can produce and approaches the ways to break up these cellular conspiracies , to leave the tumor cells unattended and vulnerable .
Proliferative diabetic retinopathy is associated with a low level of the natural ocular anti - angiogenic agent pigment epithelium - derived factor ( PEDF ) in aqueous humor .
The impact of elevated VEGF expression on the course of chronic myeloid leukaemia is unknown .
Traditional coronary revascularization therapies such as coronary angioplasty or bypass graft surgery , act by restoring blood flow through the preexisting coronary vessels .
The caprine placenta is usually considered to have increased interhemal distance compared with endotheliochorial and hemochorial types : our results suggest that the very extensive development of sinusoids and crypts may compensate for any negative consequences of the placental architecture .
It could be demonstrated that RAGE plays a pivotal role in structural damage ( e . g . inflammation , neoangiogenesis and fibrosis ) of the peritoneal membrane .
RESULTS : The control group showed the highest level of corneal clouding and neovascularization .
PURPOSE : Neovascularization has profound effects on tumor growth and metastasis .
The results imply that various different proteins may lead to HCC metastasis together .
Recent studies have revealed important roles for miRNAs in regulating endothelial cell ( EC ) function , especially angiogenesis .
UFT , an anticancer agent that is composed of tegafur ( FT ) and uracil at a molar ratio of 1 : 4 , is widely used in clinical practice in Japan to treat cancer patients requiring a long - term chemotherapy , and it is associated with few side effects , if any .
Transgenic mice engineered to express human endosialin bred on an immunocompromised background allowed the growth of human tumor xenografts .
[ The erbB gene family : significance for tumor development , prognosis and new therapeutic modalities ] .
Use of iodine - 123 - alpha - methyl tyrosine ( 123I - IMT ) allows investigation of the amino acid transport rate in gliomas .
These effects of alpha - MSH may have important regulatory functions in extracellular matrix composition , wound healing , or angiogenesis .
Solid tumors express a range of factors required to sustain their growth and promote their dissemination .
When 10 ( 5 ) cells were injected i . v . , median colony value was 55 and 20 in higher expressor vs . lower expressor respectively ( p less than 0 . 005 ) .
Specimens of NSCLC and adjacent normal lung tissues were collected from 110 patients .
Orthogonal polarization spectral imaging showed no difference in functional capillary density between the scaffolds cultured on chorioallantoic membranes .
After 1 drug - free week , the second course was administered with 120 mg / body / day of TS - 1 for 4 weeks .
Early relapse with distant metastasis often is observed in patients with cancer after resection of the primary tumor .
Analysis of molecular aberrations of Wnt pathway gladiators in colorectal cancer in the Kashmiri population .
Emodin , at a 40 - microM concentration , which repressed tyrosine kinase of p185neu , efficiently inhibited both anchorage - dependent and anchorage - independent growth of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells .
In this study , we investigated the effects of spironolactone on the prevention of corneal allograft rejection in a MHC class I / II mismatch rat corneal transplant model .
Western blot analysis demonstrated a > 2 . 5 - fold increase in Fas protein expression , as well as elevation of the active forms of both caspase - 8 and caspase - 3 .
The results demonstrate the possibility to generate monospecific divalent and tetravalent antibodies , immunocytokines , and dual specificity tetravalent antibodies .
The amplification and overexpression of the HER - 2 / neu proto - oncogene , which encodes the tyrosine kinase receptor p185neu , have been observed frequently in tumors from human breast cancer patients and are correlated with poor prognosis .
Oxidation in rheumatoid arthritis .
The overexpression of Tsg101 resulted in increased phosphorylation of the epidermal growth factor receptor and downstream activation of MAP kinases .
We found a ser122 - pro mutation in the NME2 gene of metastatic IV Cl 1 cells .
These results indicate that specific HDAc inhibitors may be useful in the treatment of Evi - 1 - induced neoplastic tumors , including myeloid leukemias .
Two small RNAs ( 0 . 9 and 0 . 75 kb ) , named Marek ' s disease virus ( MDV ) small RNAs ( MSRs ) and a 10 - kb RNA , all of which map antisense to the MDV ICP4 homolog gene , have been readily detected in MDCC - MSB1 MDV - transformed T - lymphoblastoid cells .
Parental NIH 3T3 - derived cells had both 72 kDa and 92 kDa gelatinase activities , and LTA - derived cells had either aberrantly sized approximately 90 kDa activity alone or neither enzyme activity .
Systemic regulation of distraction osteogenesis : a cascade of biochemical factors .
To better understand the activity of cediranib against VEGFR - 3 and its associated signaling events compared with its activity against VEGFR - 2 , we used the receptor - specific ligands VEGF - E and VEGF - C156S .
Using vitamin K in perioperation management did not reduce intraoperative blood loss .
The introduction of mutations into the T - antigen J domain resulted in mutation - specific and variable inhibition of apoptosis .
To test this possibility , CD2 / F ( 1 ) mice were placed on synthetic diets containing 0 , 1 , or 2 % CLA for 6 weeks , before angiogenic challenge by s . c . injection with an angiogenic gel substrate ( Matrigel pellet assay ) .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : We analyzed antigenicity , hydrophilicity , and charge distribution of the angioinhibitory epitope ( the 34 - mer ) and designed three peptides covering its COOH terminus , P14 , P18 , and P23 .
Telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein complex critically involved in extending and maintaining telomeres .
Overexpression confers an oncogenic potential upon the eph gene .
Furthermore , retention of CDK4 in these TA - like pituitary cells synergizes with loss of p27 ( Kip1 ) to induce pituitary adenocarcinomas .
In conclusion , aspirin and nimesulide could inhibit cell proliferation and induce apoptosis in esophageal squamous carcinoma cells .
Identification of the putative transforming protein of the human T - cell leukemia viruses HTLV - I and HTLV - II .
To examine the mechanisms underlying the relative resistance in HCC , we investigated the role of autophagy , an evolutionarily conserved self - digestion pathway , in hepatoma cells in vitro and in vivo .
Effects of spironolactone on corneal allograft survival in the rat .
These studies have led to the hypothesis that increased consumption of glucose in metastatic lesions is not used for substantial energy production via Embden - Meyerhoff glycolysis , but rather for production of acid , which gives the cancer cells a competitive advantage for invasion .
RESULTS : Using the D2 - 40 antibody for immunostaining , our results demonstrate a significant higher detection ( P < 0 . 001 ) of LVI as compared with routine H . E . - staining in early breast cancer .
This work illustrates alternate means to regulate Src - family kinases , and suggests that Cbl may be able to suppress many signaling pathways that are activated in various proliferative syndromes including cancer .
METHODS : One hundred and one specimens obtained from surgery were studied by immunohistochemistry using monoclonal anti - E - cadherin , anti - alpha - catenin and anti - p53 antibodies .
We developed reference intervals for serum and urine IL - 8 level in 131 control individuals .
In conclusion , our study revealed that the overexpression of EphA2 protein in colorectal carcinoma tissue correlates closely with cancer progression and hematogenous and lymphogenous metastasis , suggesting that both EphA2 and E - cadherin may play an important role in tumor metastasis in colorectal cancer .
By using immunohistochemistry , Western blot , and real - time PCR the expression patterns of TSP - 1 , TSP - 2 , CD36 , CD47 , MMP - 2 , and MMP - 9 were investigated in normal rat prostate tissue and five malignant Dunning sublines tissue .
VDAs specifically target and destroy well - established tumor vessels with ischemia and destruction of large masses with central hemorrhagic necrosis and survival of a thin peripheral tumor layer .
[ A case report of advanced gastric cancer responding to TS - 1 , a novel oral fluorouracil derivative ] .
The VEGF system represents a key mediator of tumor - initiated angiogenesis and the first target of antiangiogenesis agents introduced in clinical practice .
We present evidence that apoptosis of caspase - 3 - deficient MCF - 7 breast cancer cells is defective in response to cisplatin treatment , as determined by chromatin condensation , nuclear fragmentation , DNA fragmentation , and release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria .
Spironolactone affected both systemic ( down - regulation of CD25 + cells in spleen ) and local immune response ( up - regulation of IL - 10 in cornea ) .
The aim of the study was to investigate the potential influence of thalidomide on the several steps of angiogenesis , using in vitro models .
Smooth muscle - rich tissues respond to mechanical overload by an adaptive hypertrophic growth combined with activation of angiogenesis , which potentiates their mechanical overload - bearing capabilities .
Increased TLX expression was observed in a number of glioma cells and glioma stem cells , and correlated with poor survival of patients with gliomas .
This study aimed to clarify the relationship between the expression of the EphA2 and E - cadherin proteins and clinicopathological characteristics , with reference to the expression levels of both EphA2 and E - cadherin , in patients with colorectal cancer .
VEGF165 mediates formation of complexes containing VEGFR - 2 and neuropilin - 1 that enhance VEGF165 - receptor binding .
Hepatomas exhibiting this phenotype are dependent on the high expression of type II hexokinase , which supplies such tumors with abundant amounts of glucose 6 - phosphate , a significant carbon and energy source especially under hypoxic conditions .
Vasostatin , the N - terminal domain of calreticulin , is a potent angiogenesis inhibitor .
The 5T4 antigen is defined by a monoclonal antibody ( MAb ) specific for human trophoblast .
Despite these suggestive observations , no formal proof is as yet available for the concept that angiogenesis is a physiologic event that occurs all over the mature mammalian integument whenever hair follicles switch from resting ( telogen ) to active growth ( anagen ) .
The expression of SREBP and Cdc42 were determined by Western blot and quantitative real - time PCR .
Vimentin was expressed preferentially in tumor cells of high - grade ductal breast carcinomas ( 15 of 28 histologic grade 3 vs . 0 of 40 grades 1 and 2 ) .
RESULTS : Survivin expression was noted in 30 ( 81 % ) of breast carcinomas , and in normal breast tissue , in nuclei , and cytoplasm .
Current therapy for glioma is suboptimal .
RESULTS : Abnormal E - cadherin and beta - catenin staining correlated with depth of tumour invasion in differentiated - type tumours .
To investigate the significance of the C - terminal Abl actin - binding domain within Bcr / Abl p190 in the development of leukemia / lymphoma in vivo , mutant p190 DNA constructs were used to generate transgenic mice .
Down - regulation of collagen XII in transformed mesenchymal cells .
The semaphorin 7A receptor Plexin C1 is lost during melanoma metastasis .
However , treating EU - 6 with anti - survivin antisense resensitized these cells to doxorubicin , resulting in apoptosis .
Characterization of the metabolic changes underlying growth factor angiogenic activation : identification of new potential therapeutic targets .
Tumors of H4 cells were well perfused , unlike tumors of H5 cells which were highly necrotic .
In the current study , we have shown that loss of function by either targeted allele deletion or use of a soluble form of Dll4 extracellular domain leads to inhibition of Notch signaling , resulting in increased vascular proliferation but defective maturation .
To evaluate the role of VEGF - C in lymph node metastasis , we developed an animal model by using an endometrial cancer cell line , HEC1A .
Increased NOS activity is mediated solely by Ca ( 2 + ) - dependent NOS and , as shown by immunoblotting , an upregulation of endothelial NOS .
Mice with tumor xenograft and experimental metastasis model were used to evaluate effects on tumor growth and metastasis .
Repetitive cycles of hypoxia and reoxygenation associated with changes in synovial perfusion are postulated to activate hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha and nuclear factor - kappaB , two key transcription factors that are regulated by changes in cellular oxygenation and cytokine stimulation , and that in turn orchestrate the expression of a spectrum of genes critical to the persistence of synovitis .
METHODS : The effect of insulin on VEGF expression in vivo was examined by in situ hybridization studies of rat retinal VEGF transcripts .
Regulation of thrombospondin - 1 by natural and synthetic progestins in human breast cancer cells .
VEGF - A ( 165 ) , B , C , Flt - 1 , and KDR were analyzed .
The in vivo properties of STX243 : a potent angiogenesis inhibitor in breast cancer .
Few studies have investigated the association between p53 and VEGF expressions and prognosis in esophageal carcinoma .
Antibodies against beta ( 2 ) M or MHC class I induce tumor cell apoptosis by 1 ) recruiting MHC class I molecules to lipid rafts and activating LYN kinase and the signal - transducing enzyme phospholipase C - gamma2 - dependent c - Jun N - terminal kinase signaling pathway and 2 ) expelling interleukin 6 and insulin - like growth factor 1 receptors out of lipid rafts and inhibiting the growth and survival factor - induced activation of the phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase / Akt and extracellular signal - related kinase pathways .
The size of these A431 tumors did not differ significantly from those of control A431 tumors raised without F - 2 cells .
Uncultured peripheral blood T - cells from human T - cell leukemia - lymphoma virus - infected individuals expressed DR antigens at a low level , and the DR alpha locus was partially unmethylated .
The positive staining of nm23 - H1 gene product in primary cancers and metastatic lymph nodes were observed in 56 . 5 and 67 . 4 % , respectively .
Western blot was performed to detect the effect of curcumin on the expression of uPA .
CONCLUSION : Together , our findings suggest that RASSF1C , unlike RASSF1A , is not a tumor suppressor , but instead may play a role in stimulating metastasis and survival in breast cancer cells .
These experiments demonstrate that direct interactions between breast cancer and stromal or osteoblastic cells induce osteoclastogenesis in vitro through modulating RANKL expression .
RESULTS : The diagnostic sensitivity of this new immunocytochemical approach reached 100 % for the eight malignant mesotheliomas investigated .
We also speculate that this synchronizes them into a temporal highly chemosensitive state and is the underlying reason why adjuvant chemotherapy works particularly well for that patient category .
Detection of lymphovascular invasion in early breast cancer by D2 - 40 ( podoplanin ) : a clinically useful predictor for axillary lymph node metastases .
A significant correlation between LDH5 and TKTL1 within each histologic tumortype could not be revealed .
Anchorage - independent cell growth is indicative of cell transformation resulting in acquisition of tumorigenic potential .
UK infusion prior to 5 - fluorouracil increased tissue concentration of antitumor agent .
To investigate the endothelial proliferation and the potential signaling pathways affected by PTEN methylation , proliferating cell nuclear antigen as well as phosphor - Akt and phosphor - Erk1 , 2 were detected by immunofluorescence and Western blot , respectively , in CCM specimens .
Cancer progression and p53 .
It was found that wild - type ( wt ) SVLT strongly inhibited the terminal differentiation of mouse C2 myoblasts , but this arrest occurred only after the synthesis of myogenin , an initial step in biochemical differentiation .
Dopamine pretreatment increases the translocation and colocalization of Src - homology - 2 - domain - containing protein tyrosine phosphatase ( SHP - 2 ) with D2DR at the cell surface .
BACKGROUND : Diabetic patients have been reported to have impaired coronary collateral vessel growth , although they have excessive neovascularization in the retina .
A considerable number of mutant p53 proteins probably have an oncogenic activity per se and therefore actively participate in cell transformation .
Changes in plasminogen activator inhibitor - 1 levels in non - small cell lung cancer .
We used these data to establish a convenient , effective and non - radioactive ELISA screening technique for the identification and evaluation of potential inhibitors for VEGFR - 2 kinase .
Furthermore , the expression levels of NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules , such as fibronectin , beta1 integrin , MMP - 1 , - 2 , - 9 , and - 14 , and VEGF - C , were upregulated in the highly metastatic cells .
RESULTS : We demonstrated that cisplatin provoked a time - and dose - dependent decrease of HUVEC migration ; this effect was clearly independent from its well known cytotoxic activity .
To explore the gene expression changes that occur downstream of ELK - 1 dephosphorylation , we used a combination of temporal gene expression data and promoter element analyses .
It significantly prolongs median survival of patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) but the response is disease - stabilizing and cytostatic rather than one of tumor regression .
The induction of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and interleukin - 8 ( IL - 8 ) is an essential feature of tumor angiogenesis , and the hypoxia - inducible factor - 1 ( HIF - 1 ) transcription factor is known to be a key regulator of this process .
These findings elucidate the molecular mechanisms of PTTG overexpression in promoting tumor metastasis , whereby up - regulated PTTG modulates expression and secretion of metastasis - related factors to facilitate cell motility .
We situate invasion within microecosystems comprising neoplastic cells as well as host cells .
AIMS : In this study we investigated the effect of cisplatin on endothelial cell migration , an essential process for vascular remodeling and regeneration in several physiological and pathological situations .
Four drugs with potential anti - peritumoral brain edema activity were studied using the VX2 rabbit brain tumor model .
Latency was markedly increased and occurrence decreased in the p190 del C lines as compared with nonmutated p190 BCR / ABL transgenics .
Thus , UV - induced Erbb2 activation increases skin tumorigenesis through inhibitory phosphorylation of Chk1 , Cdc25a maintenance , and suppression of S - phase arrest via a PI3K / Akt - dependent mechanism .
Evaluation of electrical stimulation for ischemic wound therapy : a feasibility study using the lapine wound model .
PROCEDURE : To investigate the effect of p75 expression in NB , we transfected the p75 cDNA into SH - SY5Y cells , an NB cell line lacking expression of both p75 and TrkA .
Exposure to combinations of paclitaxel or carboplatin and 317615 x 2HCl with MX - 1 cells in culture resulted in cell survival that reflected primarily additivity of the two agents .
Growth inhibition correlated with decreased cellular proliferation and extensive necrosis , and it was accompanied by a decrease in tumor mean vessel density as well as a reduction in serum expression of angioproliferative cytokines .
RESULTS : Mice bearing subcutaneous tumor of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS pretreated Lewis lung carcinoma cells showed > 50 % reduction in primary tumor volume and reduced spontaneous pulmonary metastases .
Our results suggest that a key change in the metastatic hybrids , relative to non - metastatic parental LTA cells , is induction of expression of 72 kDa type IV collagenase .
The lead oxide group revealed extensive growth of blood vessels from the latissimus graft into the experimental fat pad .
RESULTS : VEGF - C expression was higher in lymphatic metastasis group ( PI = 12 . 169 + / - 2 . 778 ) than in no - metastasis group ( PI = 8 . 498 + / - 2 . 674 , P < 0 . 05 ) .
All had palpable pedal pulses .
We have investigated the expression of osteonectin gene in fresh BALB / c fibroblasts transformed by v - Ki - ras .
Induced over - and under - expression of these genes has been used to demonstrate their affect on some aspects of hematopoiesis and leukemogenesis .
Additionally , knockdown of p600 reduced transformation of cells expressing both BPV - 1 E6 and E7 , as well as E6 alone , suggesting that the ability of E7 to transformed cells is mediated , at least in part , through its ability to bind p600 .
Thus , VEGF , Ang - 1 and - 2 may play complementary and coordinated roles in airway angiogenesis and microvascular remodeling , and these structural changes are potentially reversible by therapeutic intervention .
METHODOLOGY / PRINCIPAL FINDINGS : Here , we propose a novel HDAC inhibitor , N - Hydroxy - 4 - ( 4 - phenylbutyryl - amino ) benzamide ( HTPB ) , as a potential chemotherapeutic drug for solid tumors .
A positive correlation between blood vessel volume and bone volume density was found in the younger new - bone area but not in the oldest new - bone area .
No ocular or systemic bevacizumab - related side effects were observed .
One year after radiotherapy final median VA was 20 / 400 in both groups .
In addition , densities of the newly formed bones at 16th week were studied .
BACKGROUND & # 38 ; OBJECTIVE : Previous study shows that both vascular endothelial growth - C ( VEGF - C ) and tumor - associated macrophages ( TAMs ) are related to lymphatic metastasis .
An alternative and rather obvious strategy to treat ischemia is to activate endogenous angiogenic or arteriogenic pathways to stimulate revascularization of the tissue .
Tunicamycin - treatment resulted in 75 - 90 % inhibition in [ 3H ] mannose incorporation but only 20 - 25 % inhibition in [ 3H ] thymidine and [ 3H ] leucine incorporation .
Magnitude of malate - aspartate reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide shuttle activity in intact respiring tumor cells .
In this study we separated weakly acidic phenolic components from other neutral , acidic and basic components of tobacco smoke condensate ( TSC ) and observed that phenolic fraction of TSC significantly increased the number of colonies of promotion - sensitive JB6 Cl41 cells that showed anchorage - independent growth on soft agar in response to BPDE ( an ultimate carcinogen produced by metabolic activation of the PAH benzo [ a ] pyrene ) .
Tip30 ( - / - ) mammary glands transplanted into wild - type mammary fat pads also display mammary trees with extensive ductal hyperplasia .
Furthermore , these results demonstrate that different changes of proinflammatory cytokines , CRP and inhibiting factors are consistent with associated clinical benefit or with disease progression , respectively .
Most primary human melanomas exhibit loss of expression of the CDKN2A locus in addition to activation of the canonical mitogen - activated protein kinase signaling pathway .
These results support the clinical findings and indicate that modulation of PAI - 1 activity may be of therapeutic benefit for the treatment of cancer .
Although regulation of Id - 1 protein by several mitogenic factors is well - established , little is known about the role of FGF - 2 in the regulation of Id - 1 .
Here we examined expression of type IV collagenases in parental LTA and NIH 3T3 cells ( with and without ras ) and four metastatic LTA x NIH 3T3 hybrids ( also with and without ras ) .
Taken together , our data indicate that in VHL disease , therapy directed at inhibition of constitutively expressed VEGF induction of angiogenesis by VHL tumors may constitute an effective medical treatment .
Inhibition of glucose metabolism sensitizes tumor cells to death receptor - triggered apoptosis through enhancement of death - inducing signaling complex formation and apical procaspase - 8 processing .
The purpose of this study was to investigate the expression and significance of 14 - 3 - 3zeta and beta - catenin in stage I non - small - cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) .
It is also clear that diffusible angiogenic stimuli can be released not only from most solid tumors , but also from at least three non - neoplastic cells .
Three weeks later , 2 x 10 ( 6 ) cells from three groups were implanted into the scar .
To investigate whether bee venom ( BV ) induces apoptosis , the 3 - ( 4 , 5 - dimethylthiazol - 2 - yl ) - 2 , 5 - diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay , terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase - mediated dUTP nick end - labeling assay , 4 , 6 - diamidino - 2 - phenylindole staining , flow cytometric analysis , and DNA fragmentation assay were performed on NCI - H1299 lung cancer cells treated with BV .
Irreversible PHT cases were also more likely to show compensatory upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor and new small vessel formation at the sites of native vessel stenosis or occlusion ( p less than 0 . 001 ) .
Both models yield significantly reduced placental weights and an asymmetrically growth - restricted fetus , and display altered maternal hormone concentrations , indicative of an impaired trophoblast capacity .
We have shown that Arf6 and its effector AMAP1 ( DDEF1 , DEF1 , ASAP1 and centaurin beta4 ) are abnormally overexpressed in some breast cancers and used for their invasion and metastasis .
Furthermore , cyclopamine reduced tumor blood vessel permeability to FITC labeled dextran while having no effect on normal blood vessels .
Ethanol exposure resulted in reduced VEGF - induced cord formation on collagen and reduced capillary network structure on Matrigel in vitro .
In this review , we focus on the use of tumor necrosis factor alpha ( TNF ) in local and systemic therapy in conjunction with chemotherapy .
We have investigated the mechanism by which the simian virus 40 large T antigen ( SVLT ) interferes with the differentiation of C2 myoblasts .
S - 100beta is also an independent prognostic marker .
Syndecan - 1 expression in mammary epithelial tumor cells is E - cadherin - dependent .
This reduction disappeared with increasing distance from the tumor .
The Hedgehog intercellular signaling pathway regulates cell proliferation and differentiation .
This study indicates that the simultaneous presence of ITC and VEGFR - 1 expression at premetastatic sites is clinically significant for disease progression .
This review will focus on perlecan - growth factor interactions and describe recent advances in our understanding of this highly conserved proteoglycan during development , cancer growth , and angiogenesis .
In addition , we found down - regulation of cyclin B , cyclin E , and dephosphorylation of cdk2 in ciprofloxacin - treated bladder tumor cells .
Finally , in vivo , in a xenograft model of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma using UM - SCC - 11A cells , 2ME2 exhibited antitumor and antiangiogenic activity , as measured by CD31 immunostaining .
When BB - 94 , a matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor , was added to the culture medium of Ras - expressing cells , it caused a cell aggregation phenotype similar to that caused by TEL expression .
This is primarily based on limited in vitro studies on tumor cells derived from transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder that revealed a dose - and time - dependent inhibition of cell growth by ciprofloxacin at concentrations that are easily attainable in the urine of patients .
RESULTS : Insulin increased VEGF mRNA levels in the ganglion , inner nuclear , and RPE cell layers .
Invasion of adjacent organs was more frequent in the RSCM group than in the RSCB group and the Ki - 67 labeling index of the tumors was significantly higher in the former group .
The effect of taxol , cobalt chloride and a heparin - steroid combination was tested in the fat tissue assay and compared to the validated human placental vein angiogenesis model ( HPVAM ) .
Although we cannot reveal any statistical difference between these 2 substances considering osteoinductive potential , PRP group has demonstrated superior results compared with fibrin glue group .
While the understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of IBD has recently improved , the mechanisms that link these chronic inflammatory states to colorectal cancer development are in large part unknown .
Furthermore , suppression of NF - kappaB activation decreased the transcript levels and BMP - 2 - induced phosphorylation of Smad1 / 5 / 8 , critical downstream targets of BMP - 2 signaling in PC cells .
The combination diagnosis / treatment device should be useful in optimizing FV treatment and in refining and evaluating the efficacy of DEP in future clinical trials .
Molecular and cell - physiological analyses have improved the understanding of tumour biology and provide the opportunity for new therapeutic approaches .
Transcriptional and post - translation regulation of the Tie1 receptor by fluid shear stress changes in vascular endothelial cells .
CONCLUSIONS : Low sVAP - 1 levels are associated with poor prognosis in gastric cancer .
Since ras genes have been found to be frequently activated in human tumours , we examined the levels of ras p21 in the sera of a variety of human cancer patients .
The construction of animals doubly mutant for brca2 and the apoptotic gene tp53 ( p53 ) rescued brca2 - dependent sex reversal .
METHODS : The invasion , apoptosis and levels of uPA , MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 were determined by invasion assay , flow cytometry , Western blot and real - time fluorescence quantitative PCR respectively .
This organ is derived from an upwards growth of the primitive oropharynx , a K5 - expressing tissue .
These results demonstrate endogenous gene regulation by BAG - 1L by potentiating nuclear hormone receptor function and suggest a role for BAG - 1L in 24 - hydroxylase regulation of vitamin D metabolism and the cellular response of oral keratinocytes to 1alpha , 25 - dihydroxyvitamin D3 .
This first analysis is based on 73 patients ( 50 women , 23 men , median age 74 . 3 years ) , with a median follow - up of 13 . 3 months and a minimum follow - up of 11 months .
This protein has been shown to be a protein kinase that phosphorylates on tyrosine residues .
Collectively , hypoxia conditioning induced tumor cell migration by TB4 expression - dependent HIF - 1alpha stabilization .
AQP1 was expressed in cell membranes and its expression was higher in cancer than that in normal tissues .
HT - 29 human colorectal cancer xenograft model was used and tumour growth , microvessel density and VEGF quantification were performed in tumours after the administration of metronomic CPT - 11 , L - OHP , 5 - FU and their simultaneous combination .
SDF - 1alpha induced rapid phosphorylation of Erk1 / 2 MAPK but did not promote phosphorylation of Stat3 or Akt .
The neural stem cell fate determinant TLX plays a pivotal role in neurogenesis in the adult brain by maintaining neural stem cells .
Consequently , hPNAS - 4 has potential as a new gene therapy for human ovarian cancer .
Treatment of stage IV colorectal cancer is based on the type of prior therapy and patient - specific factors .
Cloning and characterization of the latent membrane protein ( LMP ) of a specific Epstein - Barr virus variant derived from the nasopharyngeal carcinoma in the Taiwanese population .
With U937 cells , tunicamycin treatment resulted in the appearance of a 30 - 40 kDa band and increased staining of a 45 kDa band .
Assuming discrimination thresholds between high - grade and low - grade tumours of 0 . 8 for 18F - FDG uptake and 1 . 8 for 123I - IMT uptake , the accuracy values of 18F - FDG PET and 123I - IMT SPET for differentiating between high - grade and low - grade tumours were 21 / 23 ( 91 % ) and 19 / 23 ( 83 % ) , respectively .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is an angiogenic stimulator which functions through two endothelial specific tyrosine kinase receptors , Flt - 1 and Flk - 1 .
Interestingly , significant associations were found between CYR61 expression versus tumor grade , pathology , gender , and age at diagnosis .
The results in steady state reveal that both substrates glucose and glutamine are continuously wasted by tumour cells , excreting two moles of lactate per mol of glucose and one mol of glutamate and ammonia per mol of glutamine consumed into the medium .
VM - targeting strategies for ovarian cancer include anti - VEGF - a treatment , knocking down the EphA2 gene and using antibodies against human MMPs if the tumor is VM positive .
METHODS : Thirty - six New Zealand white rabbits were evaluated in this study .
In the developing retinal vasculature , numerous , long filamentous filopodia , emanating from endothelial cells at the tips of angiogenic sprouts , were observed in wild - type animals , but to a lesser extent in the PECAM - 1 - null mice .
Thus , the differential regulation of hTERT and VEGF in p63 - positive breast carcinomas may contribute to the clinically more aggressive behavior of these neoplasms .
Although AID activity is focused at Immunoglobulin ( Ig ) gene loci , it also targets a wide array of non - Ig genes including oncogenes associated with lymphomas .
Serum and urine levels of interleukin - 8 in patients with non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma .
Tumor cells express the glycolytic regulator pyruvate kinase subtype M2 ( M2 - PK ) , which can occur in a tetrameric form with high affinity to its substrate phosphoenolpyruvate ( PEP ) and a dimeric form with a low PEP affinity .
We have , therefore , examined components of this plasminogen activating system in patients with Non - Small Cell Lung Cancer ( NSCLC ) .
The aim of the present study was to clarify how expression of p53 protein participates in angiogenesis , and whether the coexpression of VEGF and p53 protein has a significance for angiogenesis and the clinicopathological features in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) .
SUMMARY : Staging of colorectal cancer occurs after surgery and is based on the extent of disease invasiveness and dissemination .
The mechanism of caffeine seems to involve the inhibition of the extracellular signal - regulated kinase 1 / 2 ( ERK1 / 2 ) , p38 , and Akt , leading to a marked decrease in adenosine - induced HIF - 1alpha accumulation , VEGF transcriptional activation , and VEGF and IL - 8 protein accumulation .
We also report on the identification of novel RASSF1C target genes .
We studied the expression of CXCR4 using RT - PCR , Western blotting , flow cytometry , and confocal microscopy in five gastric cancer cell lines .
Semaphorin 7A ( Sema7A ) is a membrane - linked semaphorin that is expressed by human keratinocytes , and we have shown that Sema7A binds to human melanocytes through beta1 - integrins and the Plexin C1 receptor .
They code for proteins of 21 kDa , highly conserved in evolution , which belong to the superfamily of ras GTPases .
In the HT29 tumor model , treatment response to vandetanib ( 50 mg / kg / day , Monday - Friday for 2 weeks ) was greatest in xenografts derived from the highest VEGF - expressing cell clones .
Notch signaling regulates intestinal development , homeostasis and tumorigenesis , but its precise downstream mechanism remains largely unknown .
In both the prevention and intervention experiments , a significant diminution of tumor size and weight was observed in the drug - treated animals .
BMECs co - expressing SV40T , hTERT and N - ras exhibited an overtly transformed phenotype ; forming very large colonies with an altered morphology and generating rapidly growing tumours in vivo .
The E7 oncoprotein of bovine papillomavirus type 1 ( BPV - 1 ) is required for the full transformation activity of the virus .
1 , 4 - phenylenebis ( methylene ) selenocyanate , but not selenomethionine , inhibits androgen receptor and Akt signaling in human prostate cancer cells .
Molecular characterization of angiogenic properties of human oral squamous cell carcinoma cells .
Three patients ( 14 % ) regained 2 or more lines of visual acuity .
Changes of bile reflux to the stomach was observed endoscopically at 24 weeks as well as the development of gastric mucosal erosions .
However , we demonstrate a novel and more complex role for PSMA in angiogenesis , where it is a principal component of a regulatory loop that is tightly modulating laminin - specific integrin signaling and GTPase - dependent , p21 - activated kinase 1 ( PAK - 1 ) activity .
Loss of p21 completely abolished the cell cycle arrest function of p53R172P and accelerated tumor onset in Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) mice .
Therapeutic angiogenesis is the biological agents or bioactive material to stimulate the growth of new blood vessels .
SOC activation in rat pulmonary arterial endothelial cells increased free cytosolic Ca2 + that was dependent on a membrane current having a net inward component of 5 . 45 + / - 0 . 90 pA / pF at - 80 mV .
Genetic instability is a hallmark of human cancers .
Cytotoxic concentrations of cisplatin , etoposide , doxorubicin or peplomycin ( tentatively termed as Group I compounds ) , but not methotrexate and 5 - FU ( tentatively termed as Group II compounds ) , enhanced the cytotoxic activity of NaF .
They were also variably resistant to the anti - proliferative and anti - invasive signals from TGFbeta .
Juice and peels , for example , possess potent antioxidant properties , while juice , peel and oil are all weakly estrogenic and heuristically of interest for the treatment of menopausal symptoms and sequellae .
As the p53 gene is known to possess tumor suppressor activity , the functional loss of this gene may be a significant step in the development of a subset of HCCs .
In contrast , at least some of these sites were not methylated in DNA from the B - cells expressing high levels of DR alpha mRNA .
A preponderance of work has been focused on the molecular mechanisms underlying this effect , with the expectation that a mechanistic understanding may lead to novel therapeutic approaches .
The migration activity of heparin and mast cell conditioned medium was blocked by specific antagonists of heparin ( protamine and heparinase ) , but not by chondroitinase ABC .
Large lesions with relatively good visual acuity ( 20 / 50 or better ) may be at particular risk for marked vision loss following verteporfin administration .
Hedgehog signaling : networking to nurture a promalignant tumor microenvironment .
The authors detected both nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 mRNA levels in 47 tissues samples of patients with carcinoma of buccal mucosa ( CBM ) by quantitative reverse transcription PCR amplification .
As a result , cells are protected from apoptosis and senescence while becoming highly sensitive to glucose deprivation .
The presence of bFGF in the extracellular compartment of a diverse variety of organs may play a role in angiogenesis .
[ Study of fungus polysaccharides compounds ( FPC ) in inducing the apoptosis of liver cancer cell Bel - 7402 ] .
HTPB disrupted F - actin dynamics via downregulating RhoA activity .
Taxol at 10 ( - 6 ) and 10 ( - 7 ) M completely inhibited angiogenesis , while Taxol 10 ( - 8 ) and 10 ( - 9 ) M and the heparin - steroid partially inhibited angiogenesis .
Transcriptional activity of HIF - 1 ( hypoxia - inducible factor - 1 ) has been reported to be up - regulated in solid tumors after ionizing radiation ; however , the molecular mechanism underlying the response remains to be elucidated .
The p16 / Rb / E2F pathway is the most frequent target of genetic alterations in gliomas , and therefore constitutes a suitable target for gene therapy strategies .
Thus TF , in addition to factors downstream of the coagulation cascade and the protease - activated receptor 2 activation system , would be a multifactorial regulator of atherogenesis .
sDll4 similarly induced defective vascular response in tumor implants leading to reduced tumor growth .
Thus , we show that deregulation of CDK expression in the primitive oral epithelium plays a unique function , providing a selective advantage that gives rise to transgene - positive TA - like pituitary cells .
This study suggests that the expression of HSP27 is frequently promoted in patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma and should be considered an independent prognostic factor of oral squamous cell carcinoma patients .
The distinction between these two possibilities is made based on clinicopathologic observations , and therefore may not be definitive .
The mechanisms that confer this rapid metastatic capacity to lung tumors are unknown .
METHODS : Patients diagnosed with chronic CSC , with clinical evidence of activity and treated with Photodynamic Therapy , are included in this report .
The tumor cells also display enhanced expression of desmosomal and tight - junction proteins .
Mutation analysis of latent membrane protein 1 ( LMP1 ) in Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) - induced B - cell immortalization revealed two transformation effector sites , TES1 and TES2 .
Single - nucleotide polymorphisms of the FAS - 1377G / A , FAS - 670A / G , and FASL - 844T / C genes may alter transcriptional activity of these genes .
GM - CSF and IL - 2 vaccine therapy and pretreatment with gammaIFN represent effective strategies in reducing hepatic tumor .
Elevated serum soluble VAP - 1 ( sVAP - 1 ) levels occur in certain diseases having an inflammatory component .
A series of our studies revealed that for activation of the invasion pathway of EGFR , it is prerequisite that Arf6 and AMAP1 both are highly overexpressed , and that EGFR is activated by ligands .
Herein we show that Cbl can negatively regulate another signaling molecule , namely theSrc - family kinase Hck by targeting it for degradation .
The objective of this study was to ascertain whether STX243 is more active in vivo than the clinically relevant drug 2 - methoxyoestradiol ( 2 - MeOE2 ) and the structurally similar compound 2 - MeOE2 - 3 , 17 - O , O - bis - sulphamate ( STX140 ) .
Regulation of skin microvasculature angiogenesis , cell migration , and permeability by a specific inhibitor of PKCalpha .
Potentiation of camptothecin - induced apoptosis by TRAIL appears dependent on cooperation between extrinsic and intrinsic pathways , as documented by loss of the sensitization to apoptosis following reduction of caspase 8 after small interfering RNA transfection .
CONCLUSIONS : DCE - MRI permits a noninvasive evaluation of tumour microcirculation and in particular of its dynamic characteristics and vascularity before and after antiangiogenic treatment .
Levels of uPA , urokinase - plasminogen activator receptor ( uPAR ) and plasminogen activator inhibitor - 1 ( PAI - 1 ) were measured semiquantitatively in paraffin sections of tumours from 147 patients with NSCLC .
PURPOSE : The purpose of this study was to evaluate the applications of magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) , and in particular , dynamic contrast - enhanced MRI ( DCE - MRI ) , in the assessment of tumour microvasculature by means of animal tumour models evaluated before and after antiangiogenic treatment .
By contrast , ras - induced tumors were poorly differentiated fibrosarcomas .
Cancer cells secrete soluble factors which can induce proliferation and migration of capillary endothelial cells .
However , the high mortality observed in the folate - deficient group precludes a definitive conclusion concerning the effect of folate deficiency on UC - associated colorectal carcinogenesis in this model .
Cytokines play an important role in creating an inflammatory microenvironment , which is now considered a hallmark of cancer .
CONCLUSIONS : The level of fibrinogen in patients with pancreatic carcinoma was elevated .
In vivo , ethanol exposure caused both decreased angiogenesis and increased hypoxia in wounds .
Transporters , enzymes , and enalapril removal in a rat ( CC531 - induced ) liver metastatic model .
The role of BRCA1 in sporadic breast and ovarian cancers remains elusive .
Thrombin increases the mRNA and protein levels of alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) integrin and serves as a ligand to this receptor .
Both tumor - bearing ( TB ) and nontumor bearing ( NTB ) animals were gaining weight prior to study and the tumors were relatively small .
METHOD : Dideoxy sequencing and fluorescent single strand conformation analysis were used to screen for mutations in exon 15 of BRAF in 183 cases of metastatic melanoma .
Among the sequence variations , there was a change from G to T at nucleotide position 169 , 426 , resulting in the loss of an XhoI site in exon 1 of the LMP gene .
Thus , 5T4 molecules can deliver signals through both the extracellular and intracellular domains , and the resultant effects are consistent with a role for 5T4 molecules in invasion processes .
The induction occurs within 1 h from FGF - 2 treatment and is mediated by ERK1 / 2 pathway , which in turn stimulates expression of the early growth response - 1 ( Egr - 1 ) transcription factor .
We examined the status and regulation of semaphorins and their receptors in human ovarian cancer cells .
In contrast , a selective COX - I inhibitor , SC - 560 , had no effect on serum progesterone concentrations .
Using multivariate analysis the S - 100beta level was the most powerful prognostic indicator , while the metastatic profile was found to be significant after exclusion of S - 100beta .
In contrast , tube formation was significantly reduced by SMI496 , a beta1 I - like domain inhibitor and by function - blocking anti - alpha2beta1 but not - alpha1beta1 antibodies .
Gastric cancer tissue samples expressed CXCR4 with variable intensities .
CXCR4 transcripts and proteins were detectable in all five gastric cancer cell lines .
The alpha2beta1 integrin receptor plays a key role in angiogenesis .
[ Intraepithelial neoplasm of the uterine cervix and angiogenesis : morphologic study ]
Immunohistochemical studies showed that the epithelioid cells were strongly positive for a broad spectrum of cytokeratins ( AE1 / AE3 , CAM5 . 2 , epithelial membrane antigen and cytokeratin 7 ) and mesothelial markers ( calretinin , Wilms ' tumour 1 and D2 - 40 ) .
Caspase - 3 is essential for procaspase - 9 processing and cisplatin - induced apoptosis of MCF - 7 breast cancer cells .
BACKGROUND : SPARC ( secreted protein , acidic and rich in cysteine ) is closely related with the progress , invasion and metastasis of malignant tumor and angiogenesis .
This analysis revealed a total of 22 protein - spots whose expression was altered by more than 3 - folds .
Effect of transplanted mesenchymal stem cells from rats of different ages on the improvement of heart function after acute myocardial infarction .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : Forty - two MRI exams were performed with intravascular contrast media in 21 rats : tumours were induced by subcutaneous injection of colon carcinoma cells in 7 rats and mammary adenocarcinoma cells in 14 rats .
The endostatin level in serum was determined by ELISA .
It activated multicaspases , and increased the activities of caspase - 8 and caspase - 9 in both MG - 63 and SaOS - 2 cells .
Intraperitoneal administration of 2G7 resulted in a marked increase in mouse spleen NK cell activity .
Lack of IL - 17F did not reverse the splenomegaly but partially restored thymic atrophy , suggesting a local effect of IL - 17F in the intestine .
One of the most fundamental is the ability to act as essential growth checkpoint that protects cells against cellular transformation .
We also observed an overlap between C / EBPbeta and COX - 2 expression in GC .
The role of the pro - inflammatory peptide , LL - 37 , and its pro - form , human cationic antimicrobial protein 18 ( hCAP - 18 ) , in cancer development and progression is poorly understood .
The data indicate that endosialin is strongly expressed by pericytes during periods of active angiogenesis during embryonic and tumor development .
CONCLUSIONS / SIGNIFICANCE : GK rat islets have increased mRNA expression of markers of early islet endothelial cell activation , possibly triggered by several metabolic factors , and also some defense mechanisms .
The p53 gene is inactivated in about 50 % of human cancers and the p53 protein is an essential component of the cell response induced by genotoxic stresses such as those generated by radiotherapy or chemotherapy .
The role of hypoxia in 2 - butoxyethanol - induced hemangiosarcoma .
Effect of estrogen and progesterone on macrophage activation during wound healing .
BACKGROUND : Recently , the desmoplastic reaction has been implicated as having an important function in epithelial solid tumor biology .
An emerging area of research suggests that CSC may also support tumor progression by promoting tumor angiogenesis .
Expression profiling in progressive stages of fumarate - hydratase deficiency : the contribution of metabolic changes to tumorigenesis .
These data provide the first demonstration of IGF - I / II expression in the human lung in early gestation and indicate that the IGF family of growth factors , acting through the IGF - IR , is required as a survival factor during normal human lung vascularization .
Our results support the use of FDG PET in clinical trials with RAF265 to assess early tumor response .
Inhibition of autophagy potentiates the antitumor effect of the multikinase inhibitor sorafenib in hepatocellular carcinoma .
Hyperforin blocks neutrophil activation of matrix metalloproteinase - 9 , motility and recruitment , and restrains inflammation - triggered angiogenesis and lung fibrosis .
Hamsters were treated with either radiation , DMBA , radiation + DMBA , or no treatment .
Such activity was abolished in mechanically stimulated mouse MRTF - A ( - / - ) cells or upon inhibition of CREB - binding protein ( CBP ) histone acetyltransferase ( HAT ) either pharmacologically or by siRNAs .
Endothelial cell migration was increased by Rab5a depletion but decreased by Rab7a depletion .
A low - Km , mitochondrial type II - like tumor HK is described as the predominant form in hepatomas .
Effects of repeated low - level X radiation on functional microvascular changes in hamster cheek pouch epithelium during and following carcinogenesis by 7 , 12 - dimethylbenz [ a ] anthracene ( DMBA ) were studied .
Plasminogen activator ( PA ) content of excised tumors was determined by SDS - PAGE , and major PA was found to be urokinase ( UK ) type .
The present study compares the radiomodification by 2 - DG in monolayer cultures and spheroids of a human glioma cell line ( BMG - 1 ) to gain insight into the effects in solid tumors .
Placental angiogenesis , which is physiologically normal , may serve as a general model of this process in other circumstances , such as tumor .
High frequency of hypermethylation at the 14 - 3 - 3 sigma locus leads to gene silencing in breast cancer .
This study was aimed to investigate whether there is selective expression of these cytolytic markers in the putative NK - cell lymphomas and whether there is correlation with zonal tumor cell death in these tumors .
There is more and more information on the role of ARF in the regulation of a cell cycle , apoptosis , and autophagy .
RESULTS : There was relatively wide variation in the expression of alpha - SMA with the percentage of the area from 0 . 68 to 28 . 15 % ( mean 8 . 48 + / - 5 . 40 % ) .
However , although beta ( 2 ) M and MHC class I are expressed on normal hematopoietic cells , which is a potential safety concern , the monoclonal antibodies were selective to tumor cells and did not damage normal cells in vitro or in human - like mouse models .
PTHrP also influenced expression of the adhesion factor CXCR4 , and coexpression of PTHrP and CXCR4 was crucial for metastatic spread .
Our data establish a novel role for SHP - 2 phosphatase in the dopamine - mediated regulation of VEGFR - 2 phosphorylation .
In cervical cancer cells , paclitaxel induced apoptosis through an intrinsic pathway with prior G2 / M arrest .
Inhibition by retinoic acid of type IV collagenolysis and invasion through reconstituted basement membrane by metastatic rat mammary adenocarcinoma cells .
This induction was due to activation of autophagic flux , as there was further increase in LC3 - II expression upon treatment with lysosomal inhibitors , clear decline of the autophagy substrate p62 , and an mRFP - GFP - LC3 fluorescence change in sorafenib - treated hepatoma cells .
In the latter , VEGF colocalized with the advanced glycation end product pentosidine deposits .
The angiopoietin / Tie2 system has been identified as the second vascular - specific receptor tyrosine kinase system controlling vessel assembly , maturation , and quiescence .
CONCLUSIONS : PE is a useful prognostic predictor of CR and OS for AML / MDS patients .
The present findings indicate that vandetanib therapy effectively counteracted the aggressive feature of tumor growth resulting from VEGF over - expressing tumor cells and suggest that such tumors may be particularly well suited for anti - VEGF interventions .
In both growth states , PDBu caused loss of protein kinase C activity , which reflected a loss in protein mass as determined by immunoblotting with antiserum to protein kinase C .
Patient charts were reviewed for visual acuity of the treated eye before PDT and at 6 - and 12 - month follow - up examinations .
RESULTS : Twenty - one eyes had juxtafoveal CNV .
Notch receptors and ligands ( Jagged and Delta - like ) play a critical role in this process in addition to VEGF .
Normal cells contain suppressor gene ( s ) which safeguard these cells against transformation by the product of the transforming Ha - ras - 1 oncogene .
These TGF - beta - resistant cells also exhibited progressively increasing levels of expression of the c - fos and and myc mRNA , and increased resistance to the cytotoxicity of Adriamycin and melphalan .
The concentrations of urine IL - 8 / Cr were significantly higher in patients than in controls ( 48 . 9 + / - 194 . 4 vs . 5 . 2 + / - 13 . 8 pg / mg Cr , P less than 0 . 001 ) .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : In this study all of the major members of the matrix metalloproteinase ( MMP - 1 , MMP - 2 , MMP - 3 , MMP - 7 , MMP - 9 , MMP - 13 , MT1 - MMP and MT2 - MMP ) / tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase ( TIMP - 1 , TIMP - 2 , and TIMP - 3 ) system have been investigated by immunohistochemistry in a series ( n = 90 ) of stage III ( Dukes ' C ) colorectal cancers .
Human thyroid tumours represent an example of the interplay of genetic and non genetic carcinogenesis .
The ability to positively and negatively regulate many of these pathways , combined with feedback signalling from these pathways to p53 , demonstrates the reciprocal and flexible nature of the regulation , facilitating a diverse range of responses to metabolic stress .
Such repression activity was totally absent with mutant pm490 / 1 / 5A .
All of the clones in culture showed almost the same low level of metastatic ability and exhibited little K - ras oncogene amplification with correspondingly low mRNA expression .
Minimal contribution of marrow - derived endothelial precursors to tumor vasculature .
Here , we report the cDNA cloning of the corresponding oncogene , designated UFO , in allusion to the as yet unidentified function of its protein .
A kinetics analysis showed that the depolarization of mitochondrial membrane potential and the release of mitochondrial cytochrome c occurred as early as 30 min after treatment with betulin .
Strong staining for bFGF was also found in cardiac muscle fibers , smooth muscle cells of mid - size blood vessels , the gut and the myometrium , in central nervous system neurons and cerebellar Purkinje cells , and on epithelial cells of the bronchi , colon , endometrium , and sweat gland ducts of the skin .
Bevacizumab and irinotecan therapy in glioblastoma multiforme : a series of 13 cases .
The samples were transferred to Kyushu University Hospital ( Beppu , Japan ) where they were analyzed by quantitative real - time reverse transcription - PCR for three epithelial cell markers , carcinoembryonic antigen , cytokeratin - 19 , and cytokeratin - 7 , as well as VEGFR - 1 .
These results define a novel function of Evi - 1 as a repressor of signaling components of TGF - beta .
BACKGROUND : Compound targeting histone deacetylase ( HDAC ) represents a new era in molecular cancer therapeutics .
We found positive Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 immunostaining in 44 . 6 % , 28 . 6 % , and 58 . 9 % of the studied primary tumors and in 63 . 6 % , 45 . 5 % , and 72 . 7 % of lymph node metastases , respectively .
This study indicated that urine IL - 8 / Cr levels might be useful as a diagnostic marker of NHL .
In all cases , there was complete concordance between the effects of hypoxia and AdCA5 .
In the pituitary and pancreatic islets , phosphorylation of the retinoblastoma ( Rb ) protein at both CDK2 and CDK4 / 6 sites was increased in p18 ( - / - ) and Men1 ( + / - ) cells and was further increased in p18 ( - / - ) ; Men1 ( + / - ) cells .
Expression of VEGF had a significantly positive correlation with IMVD ( r = 0 . 51 , P less than 0 . 01 ) .
The effect on aerobic glucose consumption , lactic acid formation , content of total ( T - SH ) and non - protein thiol groups ( NP - SH ) , endogenous respiration and the level of ATP in tumor cells incubated in vitro was investigated .
Point mutations of H - ras however , were identified in three distant metastatic pituitary tumor secondaries , but not in their respective primary pituitary carcinomas , or in six invasive adenomas .
Age alone should not preclude the use of chemotherapy in stage IV colorectal cancer , although the ability to tolerate drug - related toxicity may be a consideration .
This suggests that expression of DR antigens also can be modulated post - transcriptionally .
Docetaxel has proved to be a first line treatment choice .
To elucidate the role of N - glycosylation in the functional activity of the universal glucose transporter , Glut - 1 , we investigated effects of the N - glycosylation inhibitor , tunicamycin , on glucose transport by human leukemic cell lines K562 , U937 and HL60 .
The quaternary benzo [ c ] phenanthridine alkaloid sanguinarine inhibits the proliferation of cancerous cells from different origins , including lung , breast , pancreatic and colon , but nothing is known of its effects on osteosarcoma , a primary malignant bone tumour .
We previously characterized a secreted fibroblast growth factor - binding protein ( FGF - BP ) as a chaperone molecule , which binds to various FGFs , enhances FGF - mediated biochemical and biologic events and importantly is a crucial rate - limiting factor for tumor - dependent angiogenesis .
IL - 12 inhibition of endothelial cell functions and angiogenesis depends on lymphocyte - endothelial cell cross - talk .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : Both bone marrow and peripheral blood samples from 810 gastric cancer patients were collected at the Central Hospital , National Cancer Center ( Tokyo , Japan ) .
Combination therapy was more effective , and completely eliminated tumor in 4 of 12 IFN - GM - CSF and 8 of 11 IFN - IL - 2 animals .
Groups 1 and 2 consisted of 48 patients without DR and 42 patients with PDR , respectively .
Enforced expression of tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase - 3 affects functional capillary morphogenesis and inhibits tumor growth in a murine tumor model .
Normal and transforming functions of RUNX1 : a perspective .
A remarkable delay of tumor growth and prolonged life span were also observed .
In addition , activation of transforming growth factor beta ( TGF - beta ) by TSP - 1 plays a crucial role in the regulation of tumor progression .
After the completion of skin development , angiogenesis , i . e . , the growth of new capillaries from pre - existing blood vessels , is held to occur in the skin only under pathologic conditions .
In addition , VEGF might be associated with the etiology of periodontitis in its early stages according to neovascularization stimulated by periodontal pathogens causing swelling and edema .
No vessels were visualized in the controls .
We found that bolus ( 3h ) treatment with doxorubicin resulted in a dose - dependent decrease of viable cells and concomitant increase of apoptosis .
Cell death induced by survivin targeting exhibited the hallmarks of mitochondrial - dependent apoptosis with release of cytochrome c and loss of mitochondrial transmembrane potential and was suppressed in Apaf - 1 or caspase - 9 knockout mouse embryonic fibroblasts .
The down - regulation of MTSS1 that may be caused by DNA methylation was also observed in many other types of cancer .
Allogeneic injection of fetal membrane - derived mesenchymal stem cells induces therapeutic angiogenesis in a rat model of hind limb ischemia .
For efficacy studies , nude mice bearing orthotopically implanted tumors derived from breast cancer cell line MDA - MB - 435 were treated with galectin - 3C or a vehicle control i . m . twice daily for 90 days .
These results show a remarkable selectivity of expression and function for laminin - 332 G45 in human SCC tumorigenesis and implicate it as a specific target for anticancer therapy .
Similar to in vivo FdG - PET or primary breast cancers , rates of glycolysis were diverse , being higher in cells expressing both c - Myc and HIF - 1alpha and lower in cell lines low or negative in both transcription factors .
Treatment of murine pulmonary capillary endothelial cells with HAH - cortisol at 10 ( - 5 ) M ( with respect to cortisol ) suppressed their DNA synthesis by 50 % and inhibited their migration into wounded areas of confluent monolayers .
Metastatic spread of malignant tumor appears to correlate with activation of the fibrolytic system .
We show mutation of S727 to the phosphomimetic residue Glu , and inactivation of Y705 ( Y705F / S727E ) resulted in a remarkable growth advantage in low - serum , enhanced anchorage - independent growth in soft agar , and increased tumorigenicity in nonobese diabetic / severe combined immunodeficient ( NOD / SCID ) mice , possibly by direct activation of downstream proto - oncogenes c - myc , mcl - 1 , and survivin .
The results show that , without affecting in vitro human PMN viability and chemokine - receptor expression , Hyp ( as stable dicyclohexylammonium salt ) was able to inhibit in a dose - dependent manner their chemotaxis and chemoinvasion ( IC50 = 1 microM for both ) ; this effect was associated with a reduced expression of the adhesion molecule CD11b by formyl - Met - Leu - Phe - stimulated neutrophils and block of LE - triggered activation of the gelatinase matrix metalloproteinase - 9 .
RESULTS : Cell clones expressing elevated levels of p75 showed a high degree of apoptosis even in 10 % serum - supplemented medium .
VEGF is a potent activator of angiogenesis as it promotes endothelial cell proliferation and new blood vessel formation .
Thus , SPARC , previously characterized as an inhibitor of platelet - derived growth factor binding to its receptor , also antagonizes smooth muscle cell proliferation mediated by monomeric collagen at the level of cyclin - dependent kinase - 2 activity .
Using tamoxifen and doxorubicin - sensitive and - resistant breast cancer cell lines as models , we found that doxorubicin - but not tamoxifen - resistance is associated with nuclear accumulation of FOXO3a , consistent with the finding that sustained nuclear FOXO3a is associated with poor prognosis .
The present work supports and extends the finding of previous studies , since the results showed that the glucose metabolism depressed the oxidative processes in Ehrlich ascites tumor mitochondria , not only alone , but also in the presence of glutamine .
Here we report that a candidate tumour suppressor gene , ING4 , is involved in regulating brain tumour growth and angiogenesis .
Until recently , their role in pathogenesis was largely unexplored .
During lymphomagenesis , induction of persistent telomerase expression and activity may occur before or after telomere shortening , as a consequence of the different mechanisms through which transforming factors / agents may activate telomerase .
30 and 50 micrograms / ml of U - 995 , when added to TNF alpha - induced angiogenesis caused discontinuous and disrupted blood vessels .
Comet assay revealed a late onset of DNA breaks in the presence of 2 - DG following irradiation only in spheroids , which corroborated well with the late onset of oxidative stress .
These effects translated into a 2 . 2 - to 229 . 0 - fold increase in the cytotoxic activity of ara - C against clonogenic leukemic cells after GM - CSF or IL - 3 pretreatment .
Histological analysis demonstrated the presence of blood vessels throughout the soft connective tissue in the distraction gap .
Activity of several transcriptional factors located downstream in the Akt pathway was also tested , and constitutive activation of adenosine 3 ' , 5 ' - monophosphate response element - binding protein ( CREB ) by ICAM - 3 was detected .
However , monolayer cultures differ greatly from the complex environmental conditions generated in solid tumors that develop inhomogeneous hypoxic and necrotic regions .
The truncated fos protein that contains only part of the central region is not phosphorylated in chicken embryo fibroblasts , indicating that phosphorylation of the fos protein is not necessary for the transforming activity .
Analysis of promoter hypermethylation of the APC gene was also carried out using methylation - specific PCR ( MS - PCR ) .
There was also a significant correlation between VEGF - C and both of its receptors flt - 4 ( P = 0 . 006 ) and KDR ( P = 0 . 03 ) but no association between VEGF - B and its receptor flt - 1 ( P = 0 . 23 ) .
The results showed 0 . 01 mM GA induced the same level of cell toxicity as 4 . 0mM PCA .
However , its transcript has been found in many soft , extracellular matrix - producing tissues ; an osteonectin - related protein was detected in tumor basement membrane .
A better understanding of how p53 coordinates metabolic adaptation will facilitate the identification of novel therapeutic targets and will also illuminate the wider role of p53 in human biology .
Subsequently this activity was separated into TGFbeta and TGFalpha an EGF receptor ligand .
Additionally , glutathione depletion and extracellular signal - regulated kinase ( ERK ) inactivation was observed in EPOX - treated cells .
In our study , MOG was shown to specifically inhibit the growth of human leukemia cell lines and primary acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) blasts via induction of apoptosis , with the evidence of mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss , reactive oxygen species production , caspases activation and nuclear fragmentation .
Although the Bcl - 2 and Bax levels were significantly higher in spheroids , Bcl - 2 / Bax ratio was similar in monolayers and spheroids .
Mechanical strain induced CBP - mediated acetylation of histones 3 and 4 at the SRF - binding site and within the CCN1 gene coding region .
Thus , pVHL appears to participate in the elimination of misprocessed proteins , such as those arising in the cell due to the unavailability of glucose or to other stresses .
After 2 h incubation at 37 degrees C the drop in the ATP level was lower .
Activation of MybER both prevented the growth arrest induced by interleukin - 6 ( IL - 6 ) and rapidly restored c - myc expression in nearly terminal differentiated cells that had been exposed to IL - 6 for 3 days .
Tumor Angiogenesis : Initiation and Targeting - Therapeutic Targeting of an FGF - Binding Protein , an Angiogenic Switch Molecule , and Indicator of Early Stages of Gastrointestinal Adenocarcinomas - .
They were consistent with the concept of the existence of 2 pools of both lactate and pyruvate , of which 1 pool was closely connected with exogenous lactate and oxidative metabolism , and the other pool was closely related to glycolysis and disconnected from oxidative metabolism .
This in vitro morphological appearance was exactly reproduced in the in vivo tumors , which were formed when the mixture of A431 and F - 2 cells at the ratio of 10 : 1 were cotransplanted s . c . into the back of nude rats .
Solid tumors are frequently necrotic and hypoxic due to poor vascularization .
317615 x 2HCl is a promising new antiangiogenic agent that is in early phase clinical testing .
The c - myc oncogene encodes for a transcriptional factor involved in many cellular processes such as proliferation , differentiation and apoptosis .
These findings indicate that vGPCR may play a key role in Kaposi ' s sarcoma progression and provide experimental justification for developing molecular - based therapies specifically targeting vGPCR and its effectors for the treatment of Kaposi ' s sarcoma patients .
Comparisons of presymposium and postsymposium responses and between the 2 groups of attendees indicated that the pediatric dentistry and endodontic communities agree that formocresol will be replaced as a primary tooth pulpotomy agent , that mineral trioxide is the first choice to take its place , that IPT in primary teeth holds hope as a replacement for pulpotomy , and that IPT is an acceptable pulp therapy technique for cariously involved young permanent teeth .
We used neutralizing Abs to show that the IFN - inducible protein - 10 and monokine - induced by IFN - gamma chemokines are pivotal in inducing these effects .
Reporter gene analyses with a series of nested deletion mutants of the hepatoma type II hexokinase promoter show that a significant fraction of the total activation observed under hypoxic conditions localizes to the distal region where the overlapping HIF - 1 / E - box sequences are located .
The enhancing factors are proteins related to the family of the transforming growth factors ( TGFs ) by their molecular weight ( about 20 kd ) , their heat and acid resistance , and their sensitivity to dithiothreitol .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : Using a custom microarray , we analyzed 72 primary PETs , seven matched metastases , and 10 normal pancreatic samples .
Rat 6 cells are not transformed by treatment with the well - known carcinogens benzo [ a ] pyrene ( BP ) or N - methyl - N - nitro - N ' - nitrosoguanidine ( MNNG ) .
Our results suggest that EPOX is a novel antiangiogenic agent , making it a promising lead compound for further development in the treatment of angiogenesis - related pathologies .
A synthetic tetracycline , doxycycline , inhibits migration of human MDA - MB - 435 breast adenocarcinoma cells through a reconstituted basement membrane ( Matrigel ) , an assay used as an in vitro surrogate for the in vivo process of tumor invasion through basement membranes .
SMI activities were examined in vivo by supplementing the growth medium of zebrafish embryos expressing green fluorescent protein under the control of the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 2 promoter .
The present study used JB6 P + mouse epidermal cells and AP - 1 - luciferase reporter transgenic mice to identify whether exposure to Cum - OOH caused activation of AP - 1 , oxidative stress , depletion of antioxidants and tumor formation during two - stage carcinogenesis .
It has also been demonstrated that MTSS1 is involved in the Shh signaling pathway in the developing hair follicle and in basal cell carcinomas of the skin .
This enhanced glycolysis was partly sensitive to rutamycin and partly sensitive to ouabain , suggesting that the detergent released the control of the ATPase of the mitochondria and of the plasma membrane Na + K + - ATPase .
In 3 months - old mice , pigmented cells were detected in spleen and inguinal lymph nodes .
Moreover , about 10 % of v - fos transformed cells transfected with vectors that express antisense junB mRNA acquired a non - transformed phenotype .
HYPOTHESIS : We speculate that there is a burst of angiogenesis of distant dormant micrometastases after surgery in approximately 20 % of premenopausal node - positive patients .
A pivotal role for p53 : balancing aerobic respiration and glycolysis .
Both were positive for HIF - 1alpha and phosphorylated c - Myc , and only one was positive for pAkt .
Inhibition of Akt , however , does not fully attenuate p - XSC - mediated downregulation of AR activity , suggesting that inhibition of AR signaling by p - XSC does not occur solely through alterations in the phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase / Akt survival pathway .
However , recent works demonstrate that Brn - 3a expression is not restricted to neuronal cells , as its activity was detected also in cancer cells of non - neuronal nature .
Western blot and immunohistochemical assays were used to evaluate Fas and FasL protein expression .
Now , by competition experiments with a panel of different unlabelled cells we show that the VCSA expressed on RSV - transformed hamster fibroblasts is a complex of at least three distinct antigenic specificities : ( 1 ) one expressed on all RSV - transformed fibroblasts , regardless their species and the subgroup or strain of the transforming virus ; ( 2 ) one cross - reacting with a cell - surface antigen ( CSA ) expressed at various degrees on untransformed avian fibroblasts , but not on mammalian fibroblasts ; ( 3 ) one species - specific , present only on RSV - transformed hamster fibroblasts .
We conclude that anti - angiogenic action of thalidomide is due to direct inhibitory action on VEGF secretion and capillary microvessel formation as well as immunomodulatory influence on EA . hy 926 cells migration and adhesion .
Microvessel density ( MVD ) was assessed in order to evaluate angiogenesis of autogenous bone grafts .
s - VEGF was also measured before , 4 and 8 weeks after nephrectomy in 11 patients .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : Recombinant human galectin - 3 was produced in Escherichia coli from which galectin - 3C was derived by collagenase enzyme digestion .
uPAR is also coexpressed with caveolin and members of the integrin adhesion receptor superfamily .
To define these roles more clearly , we examined the expression of DCC and its ligand , netrin - 1 , in the normal endometrium and in endometrial cancer .
Simvastatin induces apoptosis of B - CLL cells by activation of mitochondrial caspase 9 .
Previous work has shown that a rabbit anti - VCSA serum lyses specifically , in the presence of complement , 51Cr - labelled RSV - transformed cells from different animal species .
We hypothesized that Erbb2 activation contributes to UV - induced skin tumorigenesis by suppressing cell cycle arrest .
Remarkably , final sigma mRNA was undetectable in 45 of 48 primary breast carcinomas .
Because these phenomena are all of critical importance during morphogenesis , and because FAK is expressed in embryonic cells , evidence has been accumulating to indicate that FAK may be an important modulator of developmental processes .
Platelets release several growth factors and bioactive agents that play a central role in development of not only thrombus but also of intimal thickening .
Suppressing PTTG expression by siRNA decreased cell motility in both PTTG - HA / EC9706 and KYSE150 cells .
Unusual in healthy individuals , their presence in elevated numbers often indicates substantial vascular endothelial perturbation .
Brn - 3a , a member of the POU gene family ( so - called because of the similarity with the group of transcription factors Pit , Oct , and Unc ) , was found in neuronal cells engaged in the transcription activity of the p1 and p2 promoters of the most powerful antiapoptotic gene , namely , Bcl - 2 .
This review condenses the latest findings on the signaling pathways that are activated and / or regulated by molecules generated from Hedgehog signaling in cancer and cites promising clinical interventions .
The differential regulation of human telomerase reverse transcriptase and vascular endothelial growth factor may contribute to the clinically more aggressive behavior of p63 - positive breast carcinomas .
CONCLUSION : These data delineate an ERK - and Sp1 - dependent mechanism of M - CSF induced VEGF production and demonstrate for the first time the ability of M - CSF to induce angiogenesis via VEGF in vivo .
Restoration occurred in the presence of a protein synthesis inhibitor but not after a transcriptional block , indicating that c - myc is a direct , transcriptionally regulated target of c - Myb .
Angiogenesis plays a critical role in the growth and metastasis of tumors .
Tip30 is a tumor suppressor that can inhibit estrogen receptor - mediated transcription in MECs , but its role in MEC proliferation remains unknown .
Appearance of tumorous phenotypes in goldfish erythrophores transfected with ras , src , and myc oncogenes and spontaneous differentiation of the transformants in vitro .
Furthermore , infected cells evince a marked upregulation of the EBNA genes .
p53 has a central role in skin pigmentation and may impact on melanoma at all stages , however , as it ' s mutation frequency in melanoma is low , it ' s role has been somewhat under - appreciated .
The basal phosphorylation of protein kinase C substrate of relative molecular mass ( Mr ) 80 , 000 ( 80K ) is significantly increased in all the ras - transformed cell lines .
To elucidate the biological role of the endogenous angiogenesis inhibitor thrombospondin - 2 ( TSP - 2 ) during multistep carcinogenesis , we subjected TSP - 2 - deficient and wild - type mice to a chemical skin carcinogenesis regimen .
TS - 1 is a new , oral anticancer agent composed of two modulators , gimeracil ( CDHP ) and oteracil potassium ( Oxo ) are mixed with tegafur in a ratio of 1 : 0 . 4 : 1 .
Of the 14 tumors that expressed CD40 , all but 1 ( 93 % ) had either nodal or systemic metastasis at the time of diagnosis .
It has been suggested that the immortalized phenotype is mediated by an extra cellular factor .
To address this question , we used the proteomic approach of tandem affinity purification to identify cellular proteins that are in complex with E7 , and identified the 600 - kDa protein , p600 , as a binding partner of E7 .
Epithelial keratitis , disciform edema , and necrotizing keratitis with neovascularization of the cornea developed in control animals .
The group with lymphatic metastasis had higher levels than the group without lymphatic metastasis ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
A connection between CAM and adipose tissue vessels was evidenced by immunohistochemistry , with recruitment of both avian and human endothelial cells .
Exposure of SKOV - 3 cells to paclitaxel or carboplatin along with 317615 2HCl resulted in cell survivals that reflected additivity of 317615 x 2HCl with paclitaxel and greater - than - additive cytotoxicity with carboplatin .
However , the transfer of either the p16 or Rb gene to glioma cells results in cytostatic effect .
Loss of tumor suppressor proteins , which function as brakes on cell growth , migration , or cell survival , was recognized early on as an important mechanism for initiation and progression of melanoma .
The increased expressions of these proteins in Galpha ( 12 ) QL cells were validated by immunoblot analysis .
The remaining SVLT mutants presented different degrees of ability to inhibit differentiation ( as shown by the expression of tissue - specific markers in transformants ) .
The angiogenic switch occurred in early stages of pre - malignant tumor formation , and tumor angiogenesis was significantly enhanced in TSP - 2 - deficient mice .
The overall mutation rate of the MCR of the APC gene among 86 CRC cases was 12 . 8 per cent ( 11 of 86 ) .
As predicted , these MEFs upregulated Hif - 1alpha and HIF target genes directly as a result of FH deficiency .
In these conditions , the rates of oxygen uptake , the CO2 evolution and the changes in the redox states of cytochromes indicate that glucose is preferred by Ehrlich ascites tumour cells as energy substrate .
TEL , a putative tumor suppressor , modulates cell growth and cell morphology of ras - transformed cells while repressing the transcription of stromelysin - 1 .
Angiogenin , a 14 . 2 kD polypeptide that was originally noted for its angiogenic activity , is now increasingly recognized to have a multiplicity of biological roles in both physiological and pathological conditions .
The time courses of changes in MMP - 1 , bone growth factors ( TGF - beta1 and bFGF ) , and hGH , respectively , correlated significantly during the lengthening phase , indicating common regulatory pathways for these factors in distraction osteogenesis .
A specific VEGF receptor - 2 inhibitor demonstrated the importance of glycogen metabolism and pentose cycle pathway .
Caspase 8 ( involved in non - mitochondrial extrinsic pathway ) and caspase 9 ( involved in mitochondrial intrinsic pathway ) were also activated , but to a much lesser extent .
317615 x 2HCl was an active antitumor agent against the MX - 1 xenograft and increased the tumor growth delay produced by paclitaxel by 1 . 7 - fold and the tumor growth delay produced by carboplatin by 3 . 8 - fold .
Because of this , and the virtual explosion of interest in pomegranate as a medicinal and nutritional product that has followed , this review is accordingly launched .
N - myc augments death and attenuates protective effects of Bcl - 2 in trophically stressed neuroblastoma cells .
The two parameters were more frequently observed in the SCC with VEGF / p53 coexpression than in those without the coexpression .
TSP interacts with a number of proteases and receptors and in this way inhibits stimulation of angiogenesis .
Transformation of BHK hamster fibroblasts by an env - strain of Rous sarcoma virus ( RSV ) leads to the appearance at the cell surface of a virus - induced nonvirion antigen ( VCSA ) , specific for transformation , whose expression is controlled by the transforming src gene .
Pancreatic endocrine tumors : expression profiling evidences a role for AKT - mTOR pathway .
The mice were treated by intratumoral injection of 2 x 10 ( 9 ) pfu Ad - mEndostatin .
The frequency of ITC in bone marrow was significantly associated with the stage of disease by ANOVA ( P < 0 . 01 ) .
An intracellular complex containing NRP1 and KDR was immunoprecipitated from EC by anti - NRP1 antibodies only in the presence of VEGF165 .
Our results showed that curcumin dose - dependently inhibited ( P < 0 . 05 ) the proliferation of MCF - 7 cells .
We have modelled multiple stages of malignant transformation of human endothelial cells ( ECs ) by overexpressing the catalytic subunit of human telomerase ( hTERT ) , together with SV40 T antigen ( SV40T ) and oncogenic N - ras .
This technique showed strong abdominal neovascularization in wild - type mice , but not eNOS knockout mice , locally injected with VEGF , as well as stimulation of angiogenesis in NO donor - injected mice .
IL - 8 may present a novel therapeutic target for estrogen driven breast carcinogenesis and tumor progression .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : We assessed response , toxicity , and biomarkers of angiogenesis to low - dose cyclophosphamide ( 50 mg p . o . o . d . ) and high - dose celecoxib ( 400 mg p . o . b . i . d . ) in adult patients with relapsed or refractory aggressive non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma in a multicenter phase II prospective study .
The stimulatory effect of mast cells on migration is specific for capillary endothelial cells .
Nicked { beta } 2 - glycoprotein I binds angiostatin 4 . 5 ( plasminogen kringle 1 - 5 ) and attenuates its antiangiogenic property .
Our study reveals a novel link between HMGA2 and the regulation of human telomerase reverse transcriptase ( hTERT ) , the catalytic subunit of telomerase , which offers critical insight into how HMGA2 contributes to tumorigenesis .
RESULTS : ITCs were observed in peripheral blood and bone marrow even in early stages of gastric cancer .
Media supplemented with and without 10 % Oxygent were compared in all assessments .
However , the cellular functions of VASP are not known .
Retinopathy is the most common microvascular diabetes complication and represents a major threat to the eyesight .
The aim of this study is to investigate ( 1 ) whether expression of COX - 2 and PPARgamma is associated with ovarian carcinogenesis and progression of ovarian tumours and ( 2 ) whether COX - 2 expression is controlled through ligand - mediated activation of PPARgamma in ovarian carcinoma cells .
Angiotensin II induces soluble fms - Like tyrosine kinase - 1 release via calcineurin signaling pathway in pregnancy .
This study was designed to evaluate the potential implication of stromelysin - 3 ( ST3 ) , a newly identified member of the matrix - degrading metalloproteinase family , and of BM - 40 / SPARC , a glycoprotein associated with the extracellular matrix , during the progression of human colorectal cancers .
VEGF was also increased in parallel to enhanced IGF - 1 expression .
Possible role of cyclooxygenase II in the acquisition of ovarian luteal function in rodents .
Airway angiogenesis and microvascular remodeling are known features of bronchial asthma , but the mechanisms of these structural alterations are just beginning to be elucidated .
MET expression is rarely detected in primary human melanoma but is frequently observed in metastatic disease .
In a subset of neuroblastomas , a spontaneous neuronal to neuroendocrine differentiation occurs in areas adjacent to necrotic zones .
Main outcome measures included best corrected visual acuity , ophthalmic examination , retinal photography , and angiography .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : To evaluate the antiangiogenic activity of EPOX , we did cell viability , cell cycle , tube formation assay in vitro , and Matrigel plug assay in vivo .
The finding of differential SSTR expression raises the potential for SSTR expression to be evaluated as a marker of response to somatostatin analogs .
Thrombospondin is a potent inhibitor of angiogenesis and might therefore be important in controlling tumour growth .
The structure of the myc gene has been elucidated from studies on translocated versions of the gene .
Our results showed that HeLa cells demonstrated the highest sensitivity to paclitaxel , whereas CaSki cells showed the lowest .
OSCC sublines were established from a GFP - expressing parental cell line , GSAS , and designated GSAS / N3 and N5 according to the in vivo passage number after cervical lymph node metastasis by a serial orthotopic transplantation model .
Treatment of these T - cells with 5 - azacytidine resulted in the induction of DR surface antigen expression , the appearance of DR alpha mRNA , and the partial demethylation of the DR alpha DNA sequences .
A characteristic of malignant cells is their capacity to invade their surrounding and to metastasize to distant organs .
Immunoblotting and immunostaining studies demonstrated an upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) mostly along the endothelium lining peritoneal blood vessels in long - term PD patients .
The collagen receptor , uPAR - AP / Endo - 180 , is also increased in LRP - 1 - deficient MEFs .
Repeated rounds of mutation , selection , and proliferation may lead to cancer .
Endothelial cell migration is an essential step in vasculogenesis and angiogenesis , in which receptor tyrosine kinases play a pivotal role .
These results indicate that VEGF - C plays a critical role in lymph node metastasis , in addition to serving as a platform to test the efficacy of various therapeutic modalities against lymph node metastasis .
Under serum - starvation conditions , decreased growth rate , slow rounding - up of cells , cell detachment , and formation of apoptotic bodies indicative of anoikis ( detachment - induced apoptosis ) were preceded by significant downregulation of 70 kDa clusterin precursor and upregulation of 45 - 40 kDa isoforms .
The development and progression of colorectal cancer ( CRC ) is a multi - step process , and the Wnt pathways with its two molecular gladiators adenomatous polyposis coli ( APC ) and beta - catenin plays an important role in transforming a normal tissue into a malignant one .
Our results show that caffeine significantly inhibits adenosine - induced HIF - 1alpha protein accumulation in cancer cells .
Taken together , our studies , based on a molecular imaging approach for semiquantitative detection of micrometastases , point to an important role of tumor lymphatics in the metastatic process of human prostate cancer .
After a 48 - hour incubation period , seven groups of animals were treated for 21 days with fluconazole , with group I acting as a control , and groups II to VII receiving adjunct therapy with the corticosteroid prednisolone ( 5 or 10 times daily ; 3 , 9 , or 15 days after infection ) .
Furthermore , the Runx2 / MYC combination overcomes the requirement for genetic inactivation of the p53 pathway in vivo .
This suggests that FOXO3a may play a role in LAC suppression by eliciting a protective response to carcinogenic stress .
In conclusion , p53 and VEGF were not correlated with prognosis in patients with stage II and III SCC of the esophagus .
Interestingly , the neutralization of beta ( 1 ) or the inactivation of PAK increases PSMA activity , suggesting that they negatively regulate PSMA .
Bicistronic retroviral vector reveals capacity of v - erbA to induce erythroleukemia and to co - operate with v - myb .
The cell death pathway initiated by survivin targeting was mapped with respect to cytochrome c release , changes in mitochondrial transmembrane potential , and apoptosome requirements using mouse embryonic fibroblasts deficient in Apaf - 1 or caspase - 9 .
In addition , selected novel classes of antivascular therapies , including those targeting tumor endothelial cells and other components of the tumor vasculature , are summarized .
PURPOSE : The staging of colorectal cancer , therapeutic decision making in the management of early and advanced colorectal cancer , and dilemmas posed by drug - related toxicity are discussed .
Angiogenesis in the caprine caruncles in non - pregnant and pregnant normal and swainsonine - treated does .
It was thought that potent antiangiogenic effect of cRGD - HL was probably due to the interference of alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) - mediated interaction , resulting in the enhanced antitumoral activity against SCC7 tumor .
These data indicate that endogenous IL - 1 is a mediator of ischaemic and excitotoxic brain damage , and that inhibitors of IL - 1 action may be of therapeutic value in the treatment of acute or chronic neuronal death .
Onconase similarly inhibited proliferation in all three cell lines ( IC ( 50 ) = 0 . 3 - 1 . 0 microM ) while ( - 4 ) rhEDN was more effective on immortalized HUVEC cell lines ( IC ( 50 ) = 0 . 02 - 0 . 06 microM ) than on primary HUVECs ( IC ( 50 ) > 0 . 1 microM ) .
Moreover , when introduced into nude mice , selected clones generated from either gene were able to induce tumors , although those carrying the mutated version were more efficient .
There was no significant difference of intraoperative blood loss between patients with vitamin K , ( 748 . 27 + / - 448 . 51 ) ml , and those without vitamin K , ( 767 . 31 + / - 547 . 89 ) ml ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
RESULTS : Thirty - two of 35 patients ( median age , 62 years ) are evaluable for response .
Actin signaling controls serum response factor ( SRF ) activity via SRF interaction with the myocardin - related transcriptional activator ( MRTF ) - A and tethering to a single CArG box sequence within the CCN1 promoter .
Mechanisms of pericyte recruitment in tumour angiogenesis : a new role for metalloproteinases .
Targeting a tumor - specific laminin domain critical for human carcinogenesis .
Relationship of p53 and Helicobacter pylori to clinicopathological features of human remnant stomach cancer after gastric surgery for primary gastric cancer .
ErbB - 3 ( HER3 ) is a member of the epidermal growth factor receptor family .
Mechanisms responsible for hyperinvasiveness and resistance to anti - invasive action of TGFbeta .
Prognostic significance of heat shock protein 27 ( HSP27 ) in patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma .
Blood and vascular disorders underlie a plethora of pathologic conditions and are the single most frequent cause of human disease .
RESULTS : Angiostatin inhibited endothelial cell proliferation by 50 - 60 % .
From the above , we concluded that carcinostatic agents may increase the metastatic ability of cancer cells in patients with cancer .
MATERIAL AND METHODS : Human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVEC ) were treated with cisplatin and endothelial cell migration analyzed by fluorescence and scratch - wound migration assay .
An angiostatin - mimetic activity has recently been observed using a polyclonal antibody against the beta catalytic subunit of ATP synthase .
RESULTS : The mean Rentrop collateral score was higher in Group 1 than in Group 2 ( 2 . 39 + / - 1 . 07 vs . 1 . 76 + / - 0 . 76 , respectively , p less than 0 . 001 ) .
It is normally produced in bone , teeth , kidney and epithelial lining tissues and is found in plasma and breast milk .
However , in vivo , Bmi - 1 over - expression had little effect on CNS stem cell frequency , subventricular zone proliferation , olfactory bulb neurogenesis , or neurogenesis / gliogenesis during development .
The grafts were implanted in the abdominal aortic position of 24 dogs autologously .
These properties make such agents potentially useful as adjunctive therapy in haemophilia .
In addition to p16 ( INK4A ) , the INK4A locus encodes a splice variant , termed p12 - - specifically expressed in human pancreas - - and ARF , a protein encoded by an alternative reading frame that acts as a tumor suppressor through the p53 pathway .
Our data may have implications for the development of novel regimens for diabetic retinopathy .
It is involved in a wide range of developmental and physiological processes , including serum calcium regulation .
H - ras mutations in human pituitary carcinoma metastases .
The neural stem cell fate determinant TLX promotes tumorigenesis and genesis of cells resembling glioma stem cells .
Aberrant expression of Evi - 1 has been frequently found in myeloid leukemia , and is associated with a poor patient survival .
However , E mu - directed coexpression of cyclin D1 and N - MYC or L - MYC in double transgenic mice reveals a strong cooperative effect between MYC and cyclin D1 provoking the rapid development of clonal pre - B and B - cell lymphomas .
A higher percentage of cells expressing topo I in primary colorectal cancer was significantly associated with advanced age ( P = . 040 ) .
When the two groups were compared with respect to poor and good CCC , poor CCC was higher in patients with PDR ( 64 vs . 36 % , respectively , p = 0 . 01 ) .
RESULTS : AQP1 , 3 - 5 , and 10 - 12 were expressed in human breast cancer and / or normal breast tissues , and AQP1 and 3 - 5 exhibited differential expression .
In neuronal cells , following Brn - 3a gene transfection and superexpression , an increase of 30 fold of the Bcl - 2 protein occurs , leading to apoptosis protection .
In contrast , abnormal staining was frequently found even in intramucosal carcinoma of undifferentiated - type tumours , suggesting an apparent difference in the onset of E - cadherin - catenin complex abnormality between the two cancer types .
METHODS : Bovine aortic endothelial cells ( ECs ) were cultured .
This study highlights the advantages of arranging the BHRF1 miRNAs in clusters : it allows the synchronous and synergistic expression of genetic elements that cooperate to transform their target cells .
The clinical relevance of Brk1 is emphasized by correlative data showing that Von Hippel - Lindau ( VHL ) patients that also lose the BRK1 gene are protected against the development of tumors .
On day 21 , all rats received 5 x 10 ( 5 ) hepatoma cells intrasplenically .
VEGF , angiopoietin - 1 and - 2 in bronchial asthma : new molecular targets in airway angiogenesis and microvascular remodeling .
Distinct role of PLCbeta3 in VEGF - mediated directional migration and vascular sprouting .
VTAs inhibit specific factors required to induce and direct the angiogenic process , with major activity against small tumor masses and at the tumor periphery , encompassing monoclonal antibodies and small molecules inhibitors of the tyrosine kinase domain of the VEGF receptor .
Angiotensin II ( Ang II ) is a potent vasoconstrictor that increases concomitant with sFlt - 1 during pregnancy .
Sixty - eight percent of tumors in this group were vimentin positive and 88 % of all vimentin - positive tumors fell into this category .
Consequently , we examined by immunohistochemistry , using the avidin - biotin - peroxidase method , Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 expression in 56 samples of primary oral squamous cell carcinoma and in 22 matched pairs of primary and metastatic tumors .
Elevated vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) secretion by malignant cells enhanced recruitment of endothelial cells ( EC ) in heterotypic cocultures .
G45 antibody treatment induced SCC tumor apoptosis , decreased SCC tumor proliferation , and markedly impaired human SCC tumorigenesis in vivo without affecting normal tissue adhesion .
Reduced PTEN expression was inversely correlated to the expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen and to the activation of Erk1 , 2 , but not of Akt .
In 1997 , the PTEN gene ( phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 ) was identified as a tumor suppressor gene on the long arm of chromosome 10 .
Apoptosis is a regulated form of cell death that may be triggered by natural killer ( NK ) or cytotoxic T cells , which effect target cell lysis by cytolytic effector and related proteins through complex intracellular signals .
METHODS : A clinicopathologic data review was performed in 60 patients with PTMC treated with total thyroidectomies involving neck dissections .
After 2 h incubation at 37 degrees C the drop in the ATP level was much lower .
Our results indicate that TLX is involved in glioma stem cell genesis and represents a potential therapeutic target for this type of malignancy .
Angiostatin was first discovered as a plasminogen fragment with antitumor / antiangiogenic property .
The goals of this study were to determine the mRNA and protein expressions of KISS1 and MMP - 9 in NSCLC and their relations to metastasis and prognosis .
To confirm the role of lymphangiogenesis in mediating metastasis , the low - metastatic LAPC - 9 tumor cells were engineered to overexpress VEGF - C , and the development of metastases was evaluated .
Our results indicate that HCMV elevates cellular p53 levels on the order of 10 - to 20 - fold in infected fibroblasts .
In 3 days , 1 week , 2 weeks , 3 weeks and 4 weeks after surgery , the MVD of test group was significantly higher than that of control group .
Staining was effected by the standard avidin - biotin horseradish peroxidase system .
CK1delta mutants exhibited a reduced kinase activity compared to wtCK1delta in in vitro kinase assays .
To show that transcriptional activation of cyclin D1 is causally involved in the generation of B - cell neoplasia we have generated transgenic mice that carry a cyclin D1 gene under the transcriptional control of the E mu element .
Activated Hck and membrane - anchored Cbl are present in similar subcellular localizations and co - immunoprecipitate , suggesting that their interaction is required for subsequent ubiquitination and degradation .
Recently , genetic abnormalities in the elements of the Thyrotropin receptor ( TSH - R ) dependent cAMP regulatory cascade have been found to be involved both in benign and malignant thyroid tumours .
Platelets , therefore , may represent a potential target for therapeutic intervention in human ovarian cancer .
Serum endostatin concentration was 1540 + / - 560 ng / ml at the second week of administration , the expression of endostatin diminished a month later .
TGF - beta effects on angiogenesis , stroma formation , and immune function suggest its possible involvement in tumor progression .
Targeting PIM kinases impairs survival of hematopoietic cells transformed by kinase inhibitor - sensitive and kinase inhibitor - resistant forms of Fms - like tyrosine kinase 3 and BCR / ABL .
A novel method of assessing vascular endothelial function in cancer is via the quantification of circulating endothelial cells ( CEC ) .
The oxidative burst of neutrophils stimulated by Annexin V was reduced in the saline - treated MTX group , while L - Car abolished this inhibition .
p63 - positive cells were found in 16 % of carcinomas .
BALB - / MK - 2 mouse epidermal keratinocytes required epidermal growth factor for proliferation and terminally differentiated in response to high Ca2 + concentration .
KISS1 is a metastasis suppressor gene that is lost in several malignancies , including bladder cancer .
The modulation of platelet and endothelial cell adhesion to vascular graft materials by perlecan .
Endothelial cells bound fluorescein - labeled collagen I fibrils , an interaction specifically inhibited by SMI496 .
Interestingly , FRTL - 5 - RhoA QL cells express less Tg and TTF - 1 than wild - type FRTL - 5 ( FRTL - 5 - vector ) or FRTL - 5 - RhoA N19 , suggesting a loss at the differentiation stage .
On the mechanism of glycolysis stimulation by neutral detergents in 3T3 and Ehrlich ascites tumor cells .
The Hedgehog pathway antagonist cyclopamine effectively reduced Shh - induced proliferation to control levels .
Regulation of the composition of the extracellular matrix by low density lipoprotein receptor - related protein - 1 : activities based on regulation of mRNA expression .
The cellular tumour antigen p53 is found at elevated levels in a wide variety of transformed cells ( for reviews see refs 1 , 2 ) .
It is now known that specific types of human papillomaviruses ( HPV ) are the principal etiologic agents for both cervical cancer and its precursors .
Targets identified in these novel and diverse FH - deficient models represent excellent potential candidates for further mechanistic investigation and therapeutic metabolic manipulation in tumors .
[ Expression and mutation of c - kit gene in gastrointestinal stromal tumor ] .
Four selected cell hybrids expressed the human transforming gene product p21 at levels of 10 to 30 % compared to 100 % in the transformed parental cells .
Since the function of 9E3 / CEF4 is unknown , we examined the effect of the protein on mitogenicity and chemotaxis , as well as its expression , in fibroblasts and peripheral blood cells .
A number of epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) deletion mutants have been identified in gliomas , in which the EGFR gene is frequently amplified and rearranged .
Drug delivery to solid tumors is one of the most challenging aspects in cancer therapy .
Hematogenous metastasis in gastric cancer requires isolated tumor cells and expression of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 1 .
DNA microarray analysis of treated tumor xenografts revealed significantly decreased expression of genes regulating glucose and thymidine metabolism and revealed changes in apoptotic genes , suggesting that the imaging tracers FDG , 3 - deoxy - 3 - [ ( 18 ) F ] fluorothymidine , and annexin V could serve as potential imaging biomarkers for RAF265 therapy monitoring .
Neurosensorial retinal detachment decreased in 80 % of cases .
Depletion of ARD1 by shRNA suppressed PCa cell proliferation , anchorage - independent growth , and xenograft tumor formation in SCID mice , suggesting that AR - dependent ARD1 expression is biologically germane .
RESULTS : 11 eyes of 11 patients were included in the study , which had a mean follow - up period of 11 months .
Addition of the caspase inhibitor Z - VAD . fmk inhibited caspase 8 and 3 significantly but did not affect caspase 9 .
The expression of HMGA2 modulates the expression of hTERT , resulting in cells with enhanced telomerase activities and increased telomere length .
We report a novel strategy to engineer and express stable and soluble human recombinant polyvalent / polyspecific fusion proteins .
We quantified CYR61 , CTGF , WISP - 1 , and NOV mRNA expression levels in samples from sixty - six primary gliomas and five normal brain samples using quantitative real - time PCR assay .
Mitochondrial apoptosis and FAK signaling disruption by a novel histone deacetylase inhibitor , HTPB , in antitumor and antimetastatic mouse models .
Vessel density ( MVD - microvessel density ) , endothelial cell proliferation fraction ( ECP % ) and tumour cell proliferation fraction ( TCP % ) were assessed .
The transformed cells were cloned after in vivo tumorigenic assay , and 4 clones were analyzed for osteonectin expression by Northern blots .
It focuses on the role of IL - 18 modulation in tumours , infections and autoimmune and inflammatory diseases .
In conclusion , GA may have the potential to be an effective agent for prevention and treatment of gastric cancer metastasis .
In addition , 15d - PGJ ( 2 ) suppressed tumour necrosis factor - alpha - induced - COX - 2 expression , confirming the reciprocal correlation between COX - 2 and PPARgamma .
In both of the other two cases , the patterns of X - chromosome inactivation clearly demonstrated the presence of independent primary tumors .
Following intravenous administration of cationic lipid - DNA complexes ( lipoplexes ) into mice , transfection ( lipofection ) occurs predominantly in the lungs .
TIMP3 may affect two independent downstream targets , vascular endothelial growth factor receptor and p38 MAPK .
Histologic parameters ( primary and secondary bone trabecula , neovascularization , and bone marrow and connective tissue formation ) were compared between 4 - and 16 - week groups . More rapid decrease in defect size was observed in groups 3 and 4 than in groups 1 and 2 , both in the 4th and 16th weeks .
Possible translation of our knowledge to cancer therapeutics will also be discussed .
Cediranib ( 6 mg / kg / day ) also blocked angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis induced by adenoviruses expressing VEGF - A or VEGF - C and compromised the blood and lymphatic vasculatures of VEGF - C - expressing tumors .
In this work , we show that an 11 - amino acid peptide derived from the second immunoglobulin - like domain of Flt - 1 functions as an angiogenic inhibitor in chick chorioallantoic membrane and inhibited VEGF - induced vascular permeability in Miles ' assay without binding to VEGF directly .
Many cellular and biochemical effects of curcumin in mouse fibroblast cells have been reported , such as inhibition of protein kinase C ( PKC ) activity induced by phorbol 12 - myristate 13 - acetate treatment , inhibition of tyrosine protein kinase activity , and inhibition of arachidonic acid ( AA ) metabolism .
Inhibition of NF - kappaB significantly reduced transcript levels and autocrine production of BMP - 2 by rhTNF - alpha stimulated C4 - 2B cells and to a lesser extent by the parental LNCaP cells .
These functions include the first stages of sprouting in angiogenesis , cell migration following wounding , and vascular permeability .
Green fluorescence protein transfected cancer cells were injected into the mammary fat pad of young female mice .
The distribution of basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) was studied immunohistochemically in fresh frozen sections of normal human tissues .
In an experiment in which vitamin E inhibited carcinogenesis , it was found that tumour angiogenesis and tumour growth - factor alpha ( TGF alpha ) expression were also inhibited .
These observations support the importance of ER in Ras - mediated cell transformation .
Maintained utilization of these substrates , in a substrate - deficient environment , suggests increased sensitivities to metabolic signals , which may play a role in the development of metabolic diseases in later adult life .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is a major regulator of angiogenesis that binds to tyrosine kinase receptors Flt - 1 and KDR .
It was recently reported for its anticancer effect on several types of cancer cells in vitro however , the molecular mechanisms of this anticancer effect are not fully understood .
N - myc is coexpressed with WT1 in the developing kidney and is overexpressed in many Wilms ' tumors .
On the other hand , MnSO4 only induced transformation in Rat 6 / c - myc cells , but not the parental Rat 6 cells .
In spleen , tyrosinase , TRP - 1 and SV40 Tag were expressed and tyrosinase was enzymatically active .
CONCLUSION : In conclusion , we strongly suggest that docetaxel and ATRA combination is a good candidate for this challenging era of daily oncologic practice .
Swift elimination of undesirable cells is an important feature in tumour suppression and immunity .
RESULTS : The MMP / TIMP profile defined by hierarchical cluster analysis of the immunohistochemical score identifies a distinct group of colorectal cancers with poor prognosis ( log - rank test , 12 . 22 , P = 0 . 0005 ) .
Human pituitary tumor transforming gene ( PTTG ) overexpression correlates with metastasis in multiple tumors , and yet its molecular mechanisms of action remain elusive .
The ras - encoded proteins are similar to regulatory G - proteins and are candidates for the unknown G - protein that modulates phosphatidylinositol ( PI ) turnover .
Ras - association domain family 1C protein promotes breast cancer cell migration and attenuates apoptosis .
Systemic treatment with L - NAME inhibited growth of adenocarcinoma significantly but was accompanied by impaired renal function .
The systemic increase in bFGF and MMP - 1 might reflect an increased local stimulation of angiogenesis during distraction osteogenesis .
TSP - 1 inhibits angiogenesis by inhibiting endothelial cell migration and proliferation and by inducing apoptosis .
Aglycon of rhizochalin from the Rhizochalina incrustata induces apoptosis via activation of AMP - activated protein kinase in HT - 29 colon cancer cells .
The paper reviews the data available in the literature on a role of the tumor suppressor ARF in oncogenesis and considers the structure of a gene encoding ARF protein .
Excluding N - stage , vascular grade was the only independent prognostic factor ( P = 0 . 007 ) .
Because PIM - 1 is a STAT5 target gene , we analyzed the role of the family of PIM serine / threonine kinases ( PIM - 1 to PIM - 3 ) in PTK - mediated transformation of hematopoietic cells .
Swainsonine caused a great distortion to the vasculature at 18 weeks .
In addition , PPARgamma protein was not detected in all of the eight carcinomas in which COX - 2 protein was detected , suggesting that expression of PPARgamma and COX - 2 was in a reciprocal relationship .
Treated animals also displayed a 2 . 4 - fold reduction of tumor vascular endothelial growth factor mRNA levels .
This study shows that angiogenin expression is up - regulated in the cytoplasmic and nuclear compartments in in situ carcinoma and invasive carcinoma compared with normal breast tissue and that angiogenin expression in invasive carcinomas is significantly positively associated with high tumour grade ( p = 0 . 03 ) , positive oestrogen receptor ( ER ) status ( p = 0 . 01 ) , HIF - 1 alpha ( p = 0 . 001 ) and DEC 1 ( p = 0 . 001 ) , but not with patient age ( p = 0 . 8 ) , tumour size ( p = 0 . 25 ) , lymph node status ( p = 0 . 69 ) , epidermal growth factor receptor ( p = 0 . 56 ) or microvessel density ( p = 0 . 32 ) .
Angiogenesis - - one of the hallmarks of cancer - - has emerged as a valid therapeutic target in oncology .
CONCLUSIONS : Higher expression of the glucose transporter Glut - 1 by breast cancer cells compared with the healthy breast tissue is common .
Besides the wealth of data elucidating the functional roles of Pten , recent studies suggest a diagnostic significance of PTEN gene alterations as a molecular marker for poor prognosis in anaplastic astrocytomas and anaplastic oligodendrogliomas .
The result showed that the mechanism of the FPC antineoplastic effect had an intimate relation with its induction to apoptosis and that the result of FPC inducing tumor cell apoptosis had the character of P53 independence .
An earlier study showed that thrombospondin is expressed in benign prostatic hyperplasia ( BPH ) and high - grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia ( PIN ) but is absent in prostate cancer .
HBO is useful in chronic nonhealing wounds of the diabetic foot and of the diabetic foot with impending amputation .
There are currently no other means of treatment for this disorder , which has a high morbidity and mortality rate .
Activation of vascular endothelial growth factor through reactive oxygen species mediates 20 - hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid - induced endothelial cell proliferation .
In conclusion , the decrease in c - Myc expression enhanced the VLB sensitivity , triggering earlier apoptosis through induction of the intrinsic pathway .
RASSF1C down - regulates several pro - apoptotic and tumor suppressor genes and up - regulates several growth promoting genes in breast cancer cells .
Energy metabolism of freshly harvested Ehrlich ascites tumour cells in the presence of 5 mM glucose and / or 0 . 5 mM glutamine was studied .
These results strongly suggested that the BI - 1 gene might play a crucial role in neoplastic genesis and development .
In co - transfection experiments , exogenous expression of AP - 2gamma robustly activated ErbB - 3 promoter activity .
The appearance of lipid - bloated subretinal MCs was drusen - like on funduscopy of senescent mice , and CX3CR1 - dependent MC accumulation was associated with an exacerbation of experimental CNV .
Controlled neo - endothelialisation is critical to the patency of small diameter vascular grafts .
The INK4 family of proteins negatively regulates cell cycle progression at the G ( 1 ) - S transition by inhibiting cyclin - dependent kinases .
Less than 15 % of the glucose uptake was affected by the 1 , 2 , 3 - benzenetricarboxylate inhibition of the malate - citrate shuttle .
RESULTS : MCT 1 and 2 were the primary isoforms expressed in human glioblastoma multiforme and glioma - derived cell lines .
Four patients received bevacizumab at a dose of 10 mg / m2 ; irinotecan was given at a dose of 125 mg / m2 every week for 3 weeks .
Adult rat urothelial cells were transformed in vitro following treatment with a single dose of N - methyl - N - nitrosourea ( MNU ) or MNU treatment followed by promotion with sodium saccharin .
High HER2 expression in specimens was additionally investigated by fluorescence in situ hybridization .
We observed a significant up - regulation of VEGF - B ( P = 0 . 002 ) but not VEGF - C ( P = 0 . 3 ) in neoplastic kidney compared with normal tissues .
Clinical studies have shown elevated serum IL - 6 concentrations in patients with endometrial cancer , non - small cell lung carcinoma , colorectal cancer , renal cell carcinoma , breast and ovarian cancer .
Here , we have tested endocytic Rab GTPases for regulation of VEGFR2 trafficking and signaling linked to endothelial cell migration .
RAGE ( receptor for AGE ) is the best characterized signal transduction receptor for AGEs and is expressed on mesothelial cells .
Interleukins ( ILs ) may mediate regression or progression of cancer .
These results suggest that the reduced APC protein level increases intestinal polyp multiplicity through quantitative stimulation of the beta - catenin / T - cell factor transcription .
One hundred mg / body / day of TS - 1 was orally administrated for 4 weeks .
In examining the metabolic basis for selenoperoxidase - dependent resistance , we found that glucose - replete Se ( - ) cells reduce t - BuOOH to t - butanol far more slowly than Se ( + ) cells , the ratio of the first - order rate constants approximating that of the GPX activities ( L1210 cells ) or PHGPX activities ( K562 cells ) .
Finally , serum - free conditioned medium from MDA - 231 cells inhibited the NK cell activity of human blood lymphocytes .
Whether more differentiated cells may also be transformed by particular oncogenes is actively debated ; it is presently unclear whether stem cells or differentiated mammary cells are more susceptible to transformation by individual oncogenes .
RESULTS : PLD was significantly higher than ILD ( p < . 001 ) .
Together , these results suggest that Tip30 is an intrinsic and negative regulator of MEC proliferation partly through the inhibition of Wisp2 and Igf - 1 expression , and its absence in the mammary gland may predispose MECs to neoplastic transformation .
The effects on aerobic glucose consumption , lactic acid formation , content of total ( T - SH ) and non - protein thiol groups ( NP - SH ) , endogenous and exogenous respiration and the level of ATP in tumour cells incubated in vitro were investigated .
CONCLUSIONS : Young donor - derived MSCs can improve heart function significantly through angiogenesis and decreasing cardiomyocyte apoptosis when transplanted to the infarcted area .
We revealed that expression of p53 proteins with amino - acid substitutions at codons 175 ( R175H ) , 248 ( R248W ) , and 273 ( R273H ) , representing the hot - spots of mutations in various human tumors , increased the number of vessels in HCT116 human colon carcinoma xenografts and , as a result , accelerated their growth .
Instead of a traditional single - gene readout , global bioinformatics analysis was carried out , which revealed that the glycolysis pathway was the most significantly enriched pathway .
Bone marrow with its unique native properties produced autocrine angiogenicity in the graft .
A growing body of evidence indicates that deregulation of stem cell fate determinants is a hallmark of many types of malignancies .
To further elucidate the biological significance of WT1 in leukemic cell growth , we overexpressed exogenous WT1 in murine M1 myeloblastic leukemia cells using the isopropyl - beta - D - thiogalactoside ( IPTG ) - controlled expression system .
After inhibition of gluconeogenesis , the plasma glucose decreased and the blood lactate increased significantly more in TB than NTB animals .
These results indicated that Hes genes cooperatively regulate intestinal development and homeostasis and raised the possibility that Hes1 is a promising target to induce the differentiation of tumor cells .
This effect was observed whether the cells had been treated with all - trans - RA in serum - free medium or in medium supplemented with heat - inactivated or acid - treated fetal bovine serum .
Both PLD1 and PLD2 also induced an up - regulation of the activity of matrix metalloprotease - 9 as detected by zymograms .
However , co - culture of these cancer cells with stromal or osteoblastic cells induced RANKL mRNA expression and decreased OPG mRNA expression .
Age - related impaired wound healing leads to substantial morbidity and mortality along with a large financial burden to health services .
Both cell lines showed reduced expression of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteases ( TIMP ) - 1 , while TIMP - 2 and plasminogen activator inhibitor ( PAI ) - I expression was was also reduced in RSVT2 / C cells , thus contributing to their hyperinvasiveness .
The accumulation of genetic alterations of some proto - oncogens , like the erbB - family , may be part of the mechanism , by which malignant cells can acquire a selective growth advantage .
Protein kinase C levels in several transformed cell lines were subject to down modulation in a similar growth state - dependent manner .
Current prospects for controlling cancer growth with non - cytotoxic agents - - nutrients , phytochemicals , herbal extracts , and available drugs .
In synchronized cultures at the beginning of the mitotic cycle , the bulk of ATP resynthesized via glycolysis is utilized for the synthesis of biopolymers , whereas that at the end of the S - phase and in the G2 - phase is utilized for cation transport across plasma membranes .
Activating mutations of the TSH - R gene have been detected in a group of differentiated carcinomas with high basal adenylyl cyclase activity , and in a few cases of hyperfunctioning thyroid carcinoma .
RESULTS : Methylation - specific polymerase chain reaction revealed PTEN promoter methylation in 15 . 9 % CCMs .
This hypothesis in humans can be tested only by intervention trials that are in progress .
These findings reveal what we believe to be a novel pathogenic process with important implications for the development of new therapies for AMD .
Another cell adhesion protein , beta 1 - integrin was not affected by E - cadherin expression .
RESULTS : The antiapoptotic protein Bcl - 2 was highly expressed by pulmonary endothelial cells in all cases of irreversible PHT but in no cases of reversible PHT , nor in control patients ( p less than 0 . 001 ) .
A preponderance of viable fat , with evidence of neovascularization , was found in experimental flaps , compared with the necrotic fat that characterized the controls .
In contrast , MMP - 9 expression was higher in stage III - IV NSCLC cases compared to stage I - II tumors ( p < 0 . 05 ) and higher in NSCLC cases with metastasis than those without metastasis ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
Comparison between cells revealed different apoptosis kinetics : accumulation of cells in sub - G1 phase and poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase cleavage occurred earlier in LoVo - mycANS .
Targeted down - regulation of PIM - 2 by RNA interference ( RNAi ) selectively abrogated survival of Ba / F3 cells transformed by various Fms - like tyrosine kinase 3 ( FLT3 ) - activating mutants [ internal tandem duplication ( ITD ) and kinase domain ] and attenuated growth of human cell lines containing FLT3 mutations .
Ovarian cancer is a silent killer , and shows early extensive tumor invasion and peritoneal metastasis .
Under the conditions used , peroxide - induced conversion of GSH to GSSG could be stoichiometrically reversed by resupplying D - glucose , indicating that no significant lysis or GSSG efflux and / or interchange had taken place .
Hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell carcinoma ( HLRCC ) is caused by mutations in the Krebs cycle enzyme fumarate hydratase ( FH ) .
Clusterin expression level depends on cell proliferation state , and we recently showed that its over - expression inhibited cell cycle progression of SV40 - immortalized human prostate epithelial cells PNT2 and PNT1a .
In vivo , cediranib ( 6 mg / kg / d ) prevented angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis induced by VEGF - E - expressing and VEGF - C156S - expressing adenoviruses , respectively .
Cancer neoangiogenesis is often disordered and abnormal , with evidence of coexisting vascular endothelial dysfunction .
Maternal endothelial dysfunction in preeclampsia is associated with increased soluble fms - like tyrosine kinase - 1 ( sFlt - 1 ) , a circulating antagonist of vascular endothelial growth factor and placental growth factor .
A p53 mutant , p53R172P , which is deficient for apoptosis but retains a partial cell cycle arrest function , delays tumor onset in mice .
An increase of atrophy over the Retinal Pigment Epithelium ( RPE ) was observed in another patient .
Curcumin inhibits metastatic progression of breast cancer cell through suppression of urokinase - type plasminogen activator by NF - kappa B signaling pathways .
Together , these studies define a novel p53 - survivin signaling pathway activated by DNA damage that results in down - regulation of survivin , cell cycle arrest , and apoptosis .
Pretreatment of cells with caffeine significantly reduces adenosine - induced VEGF promoter activity and VEGF and IL - 8 expression .
TP is not only expressed in tumor cells but also in tumor surrounding tissues , such as tumor infiltrating macrophages .
In conclusion , the metastasis from TRP - 1 / Tag RPE tumors towards spleen and lymph nodes serves as potential tool to investigate biology and metastasis of tumors derived from the pigment epithelium .
Many of these metastases presumably arise from primary lung carcinomas , but the morphologic features and immunohistochemical profile of lung cancer is often too nonspecific to permit unequivocal confirmation .
This metastatic ability was enhanced remarkably after in vivo tumor growth ( subcutaneous tumor formation in nude mice ) accompanied by increased mRNA expression and gene amplification of the human - derived K - ras oncogene , while it declined gradually as the passage number increased in vitro , with corresponding decreases of gene amplification and mRNA expression .
Thus , nuclear targeting of a specific 45 - kDa isoform of clusterin appeared to be an early and specific molecular signal triggering anoikis - death .
There was negative correction between KISS1 and MMP - 9 protein expression ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
Specifically , CLA was found to decrease the ability of mammary stromal cells to form complex anastomosing microcapillary networks in vitro on Engelbreth - Holm - Swarm - derived reconstituted basement membrane .
[ Clinical significance of interleukin - 6 ( IL - 6 ) as a prognostic factor of cancer disease ]
Lesion composition also appears to influence visual outcome with verteporfin use .
Six edentulous patients ( aged 60 + / - 9 years ) with a severely atrophic mandible underwent bone augmentation with distraction osteogenesis .
However , sVAP - 1 expression has not been described for gastric cancer .
The temporal expression ( percentage positivity per 1000 analysed cells ) VEGF proteins over the course of CML were studied using the immunohistochemical technique utilizing relevant monoclonal antibodies .
Activated platelets enhance ovarian cancer cell invasion in a cellular model of metastasis .
The relationship between TS and DPD expression and clinicopathological data was analyzed .
Further deletions reveal a sequence within the carboxy - terminal domain that is responsible for in vivo bundle formation .
The data support the hypothesis that increased epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) and transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - alpha expression is associated with early events in malignant transformation of pleomorphic adenoma ( PA ) .
To evaluate the concept that localized delivery of angiogenic factors via virus - mediated gene transfer may be useful in the treatment of ischemic disorders , the replication - deficient adenovirus ( Ad ) vector AdCMV . VEGF165 ( where CMV is cytomegalovirus and VEGF is vascular endothelial growth factor ) containing the cDNA for human VEGF165 , a secreted endothelial cell - specific angiogenic growth factor , was constructed .
Long - term peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) is associated with alterations in peritoneal permeability and loss of ultrafiltration .
The MVD and Ki - 67 LI were higher , and the AI was lower in the SCC with VEGF / p53 coexpression than in those without the coexpression .
sVAP - 1 is also an independent predictive marker for lymph node metastasis .
In multivariate analysis , PE was found to be a significant ( P = 0 . 03 ) predictor of overall survival ( OS ) with adjustment of the other baseline covariates , including patient age , history of antecedent hematologic disorders , and the use of protective environments .
TNFalpha treatment in cultured cells resulted in increased gene mutations , gene amplification , micronuclei formation and chromosomal instability .
Nonetheless , anti - VEGF therapy has enhanced the arsenal of anticancer therapies and has provided new insights into the biology of malignancy .
The adenovirus type 5 55 - kDa E1B protein ( E1B - 55kDa ) cooperates with E1A gene products to induce cell transformation .
The mechanisms by which hypoxic tumor environments induce HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression are largely unknown .
This prompted us to examine a hypothesis that insulin - like growth factors may be responsible for overexpression of tumor hexokinase .
To assess the lymphoid tumorigenic potential of bcl - 2 , mice of five independent strains expressing a bcl - 2 transgene in B and / or T cells were monitored for disease up to 12 months of age .
However , the expression of nm23 - H1 gene product in the metastatic sites have not been studied in detail .
In vivo glucose and alanine kinetics were examined by tracer methodology in a sarcoma - bearing rat model .
Pre - treatment with rapamycin inhibited activation of mTOR signalling and significantly enhanced the sensitivity of CaSki cells to paclitaxel by increasing apoptotic cell death .
PTEN protein expression paralleled with its mRNA expression ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Common features of this ECM - assisted tissue remodelling include angiogenesis , recruitment of circulating progenitor cells and constructive remodelling of damaged tissue structures .
The marked induction of angiogenesis in glioblastomas suggests that it is a necessary part of malignant progression ; however , the precise molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of brain tumour growth and angiogenesis remain unresolved .
Compared with CSC - low tumors , CSC - high tumors exhibited increased microvessel density and blood perfusion and induced increased mobilization and tumor recruitment of bone marrow - derived endothelial progenitor cells ( EPC ) .
Target FVs are tracked by a joy - stick controlled laser aiming beam until an intravenously - injected high - concentration ICG dye bolus is observed to enter the target vessel , at which time the laser is fired .
Upon retroviral transduction of the mouse c - myc gene , Rat 6 cells showed mildly altered morphology and formed microcolonies in soft agar ; furthermore , they could be transformed by BP and MNNG to form large colonies in agar ( Hsiao et al . ( 1992 ) Mol . Carcinogenesis , 5 , 140 - 154 ) .
RESULTS : Fifty - one percent of patients with RDEB had elevated levels ( greater than 5000 pg / g ) of urinary bFGF .
The discovery that this gene is also frequently mutated in human leukemia has increased the interest in the role that RUNX1 plays in both normal and transforming pathways .
On the other hand , VEGF levels were not increased by LPS stimulation .
It has a mitogenic activity for MEF cells , as demonstrated by an immediate induction of cell doubling time .
An anti - vascular endothelial growth factor strategy may reduce tissue damage associated with radiation vasculopathy and neuropathy .
We recently identified GEP100 ( BRAG2 ) to be responsible for the Arf6 activation to induce invasion and metastasis , by directly binding to ligand - activated epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) .
Dss1 overexpression was detected by Northern blot analysis in early TPA - treated hyperplastic skins and in JB6 Cl 41 - 5a epidermal cells .
A significant amount of type I HK RNA was also found expressed in cancer cell lines .
Control RM - 9 cells and RM - 9 cells stably transfected with IL - 12 gene ( RM - 9 - IL12 ) were inoculated subcutaneously in 4 - to 6 - week - old male C57BL / J6 mice .
This in vitro transformation process involves multiple steps : slow - growing ' pre - neoplastic ' epithelial foci are induced 70 - 100 days after MNU treatment and from such foci rapidly proliferating immortal cell lines were established , some of which became tumorigenic after a further latent period .
In contrast to the results obtained with c - jun , the levels of junB mRNA and protein were found to be reduced two - or threefold in revertant EMS - 1 - 19 .
Actinomycin - D , but not puromycin , also blocks progestin - dependent induction of TSP - 1 .
14 - 3 - 3zeta Overexpression and abnormal beta - catenin expression are associated with poor differentiation and progression in stage I non - small cell lung cancer .
Herein , we report that these compounds effectively inhibited SDF - 1 - induced migration of human breast cancer cells ( MDA - MB - 231 ) , human leukemia T cells ( Sup - T1 ) and human umbilical vein endothelial cells at concentrations of 10 - 100 nM in vitro .
Highly sensitive reverse - transcription polymerase chain reaction identifies an induction and overexpression of a type II - like tumor HK RNA in a range of cancer cell lines irrespective of tissue origin .
Protein tyrosine phosphorylation / dephosphorylation is a fundamental mechanism in the regulation of cell proliferation and neoplastic transformation ; this metabolic process is modulated by the opposing activities of protein tyrosine kinases and protein tyrosine phosphatases ( PTPases ) .
The role of retinal microglial cells ( MCs ) in age - related macular degeneration ( AMD ) is unclear .
BACKGROUND : The management of hormone - refractory prostate cancer ( HRPC ) still remains as an important challenge of daily oncology practice .
In seven diabetic patients with proliferative retinopathy , the most profound finding was a significant decrease of the PEDF level ( mean value : 237 ng / ml ) , whereas VEGF levels were comparable to diabetic patients without proliferation ( mean value : 3153 ; p = 0 . 003 ) .
( 3 ) .
Adenomatoid tumour of the liver .
CONCLUSIONS : We found that insulin does not induce major changes in glucose uptake of lymphomatous tissue .
Notably , a similar vascular phenotype was induced by morpholino - mediated knockdown of the integrin alpha2 subunit .
The putative metastasis suppressor genes , NME1 ( nm23 - 1 ) and NME2 ( nm23 - 2 ) , were examined in a model system we developed to approximate the dissemination of melanoma from a primary skin tumor .
Rise in lactate concentrations over baseline levels in the first 30 minutes of the glucose tolerance test were significantly higher in dogs with lymphoma ( P = 0 . 011 ) .
These results suggest that point mutations in p53 and ras are not associated with pituitary tumorigenesis , however , point mutations of the H - ras gene may be important in the formation and or growth of pituitary metastases .
Intraperitoneal injections of 2G7 starting 1 d after intraperitoneal inoculation of tumor cells suppressed intraabdominal tumor and lung metastases , whereas the nonneutralizing anti - TGF - beta 12H5 IgG2a had no effect .
Based on ChIP analysis , the transcriptional regulation of BMP - 2 gene by NF - kappaB may be partially attributed to binding to kappab site on the BMP - 2 promoter .
Lewis lung carcinomas , MT - ret melanomas , and B16F10 melanomas all grew slower in Ang - 2 - deficient mice .
These results indicate that HIF - 1 functions as a master regulator of angiogenesis by controlling the expression of multiple angiogenic growth factors and that adenovirus - mediated expression of a constitutively active form of HIF - 1alpha is sufficient to induce angiogenesis in nonischemic tissue of an adult animal .
The portion of the LTR responsible for trans activation was mapped by deletions to lie within the U3 region .
This review will focus on the evidence for TGFbeta1 as a tumor promoting and metastasis factor and examine the biological and molecular basis for these effects .
In cultured cells , this molecule is physically associated with focal adhesions , which are well - defined regions of intimate cell - to - substratum adhesion .
Group 2 was treated by Enoxaparine Na , group 3 received HBO therapy , and group 4 was given both enoxaparine Na and HBO treatment .
MMTV - cre - mediated inactivation of fur without over - expression of PLAG1 caused smaller but histologically normal salivary glands .
CONCLUSIONS : PLGA microspheres with an open porous structure allowed significant amount of heparin immobilization and bFGF loading .
Expression of 14 - 3 - 3 final sigma ( final sigma ) is induced in response to DNA damage , and causes cells to arrest in G ( 2 ) .
The N - myc proto - oncogene encodes a transcription factor which regulates cell growth and differentiation .
The Down syndrome critical region gene 1 short variant promoters direct vascular bed - specific gene expression during inflammation in mice .
Moreover , U - 995 ( 30 micrograms / ml ) markedly prevented collagenase - induced collagenolysis .
Our data suggest that plasmin - nicked beta2GPI promotes angiogenesis by interacting with plasmin - generated AS4 . 5 in sites of increased fibrinolysis such as thrombus .
VEGF165 or AdCMV . beta gal ( 2 x 10 ( 10 ) pfu ) was resuspended in 0 . 5 mL Matrigel and injected subcutaneously into mice .
The mRNA and protein expressions of KISS1 and of MMP - 9 protein were detected by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry respectively in 85 cases of NSCLC , and their matched lymph node metastases .
The patterns of lymphatic vessels , the expression of VEGFs , and their correlation with neck metastases were assessed .
RESULTS : Of the 13 treated patients , 10 ( 77 % ) had a radiologically demonstrated partial response and 3 ( 23 % ) had stable disease .
mRNA expression levels of angiogenesis stimulators and inhibitors were determined by quantitative RT - PCR .
Moreover , renal carcinoma cell lines also released the soluble form of CD154 into the supernatant .
IL - 17F deficient Apc ( Min / + ) mice showed a significant decrease in immune cell infiltration in the lamina propria .
Statistical analysis is performed and P < 0 . 05 considered significant .
Here , we established lymph node metastasis models by injecting overexpressing VEGF - D Lewis lung carcinoma cells into C57BL / 6 mice to explore the effect of honokiol on tumor - associated lymphangiogenesis and related lymph node metastasis .
After 7 days , the pellets from animals fed the control diet were infiltrated by abundant branching networks of blood vessels with patent lumen - containing RBCs .
Accordingly , the therapeutic potential of curcumin for breast cancer deserves further study .
Opinions on 3 areas were sought : pulp therapy for cariously involved primary teeth ; indirect pulp treatment ( IPT ) for cariously involved immature permanent teeth ; and innovative treatment options including pulpal revascularization and regeneration .
Measurements of respiration , CO2 and lactate production , and changes in the levels of various key metabolites of the glycolytic sequence and tricarboxylic acid cycle were made on five lines of rodent ascites tumor cells ( two strains of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells , Krebs II carcinoma , AS - 30D carcinoma , and L1210 cells ) incubated aerobically in the presence of uniformly labeled D - [ 14C ] glucose .
Organic peroxides , widely used in the chemical and pharmaceutical industries , can act as skin tumor promoters and cause epidermal hyperplasia .
In the embryonic stem cells homozygous for these hypomorphic Apc alleles , the level of the APC protein was inversely correlated with both the beta - catenin accumulation and beta - catenin / T - cell factor transcriptional activity .
METHODS : Forty patients with recurrent or metastatic advanced cancer , without bone metastases , were randomized into the trial to either receive zoledronic acid or no treatment .
TES2 mediates the interaction with tumor necrosis factor receptor - associated death domain protein ( TRADD ) and plays a key role in transactivating NF - kappa B and AP - 1 .
Through morphological and biochemical analyses , it was demonstrated that NCI - H1299 cells treated with BV exhibit several features of apoptosis .
The central region that is sufficient for these activities includes the evolutionarily highly conserved region among human , mouse and chicken c - fos proteins .
These disturbed functions are associated with suppression of signaling mechanisms implicated in EC survival and angiogenesis .
One week later , IGF - 1 - transfected SMCs had increased myocardial IGF - 1 and VEGF levels , increased Bcl2 expression , limited cell apoptosis , and enhanced vessel formation in the myocardial scar compared with the two control groups ( P less than 0 . 05 for all groups ) .
Pro / antioxidant status and AP - 1 transcription factor in murine skin following topical exposure to cumene hydroperoxide .
As coronary artery disease is the major cause of death in the developed societies and also an emerging health problem in developing countries like Bangladesh therapeutic angiogenesis may provide hope as a new treatment modality for ischemic heart disease with or in place of current therapies .
KISS1 methylation was associated with increasing stage ( P = 0 . 001 ) and tumor grade ( P = 0 . 010 ) .
Bone destruction is primarily mediated by osteoclastic bone resorption , and cancer cells stimulate the formation and activation of osteoclasts next to metastatic foci .
Moreover , HTPB inhibited activity of MMP2 and MMP9 , reduced integrin - beta1 / focal adhesion complex formation and decreased pericellular poly - fibronectin assemblies .
To examine the mechanisms by which insulin regulates VEGF expression , human retinal pigment epithelial ( RPE ) cells were exposed to insulin , and VEGF mRNA levels were quantified with RNase protection assays ( RPAs ) .
In contrast , intact beta2GPI does not bind to AS4 . 5 or inhibit its antiangiogenic activity .
The permeability of plasma membranes for K + increases 2 . 75 fold , while the passive flux of Na + diminishes .
Lymph node metastasis is one of the most important prognostic factors in various types of cancers , including endometrial cancer .
The 5 - yr survival rate in patients with the coexpression was poorer than in the other patients .
Selenoperoxidase - dependent glutathione cycle activity in peroxide - challenged leukemia cells .
We hypothesized that an additional direct consequence of FH deficiency is the establishment of a biosynthetic milieu .
Similarly , perivascular inflammatory T - cells expressed more antiapoptotic proteins in irreversible PHT ( p less than 0 . 01 ) .
Thus the results obtained by 31P and 13C MRS correlated with the differentiation state of H4 and H5 spheroids and tumors .
We investigated how inhibition of glucose metabolism could affect death receptor - mediated apoptosis in human tumor cells of diverse origin .
In contrast , multicellular spheroids mimic heterogeneous cellular behavior and the consequent functional characteristics of in vivo solid tumors , and serve as important in vitro model to investigate tumor biology and responses to potential therapeutic agents .
The later expression of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 in fibroblasts suggests a role in extracellular matrix remodeling .
Research and discovery of the first human cancer virus , HTLV - 1 .
Actin - sequestering protein , thymosin beta - 4 , is a novel hypoxia responsive regulator .
Collagen XII is a complex multidomain protein associated with the surface of interstitial collagen fibrils .
Thus , neither the p53 - binding region nor the Bcl - 2 homology region of T antigen was sufficient to prevent cell death induced by the DNA - damaging agent .
Tumors display a high rate of glucose uptake and glycolysis .
Hence , the down - regulation of p21WAF1 , together with the alterations in Bax and cdk2 as observed in our studies , may define a novel mechanism by which ciprofloxacin inhibits tumor cell growth and induces apoptotic cell death .
After confirming the results in agar - processed cell lines , annexin II and beta ( 2 ) - tubulin expression were found to be lower in tumor cells than in adjacent normal epithelial cells in 100 % and 90 % of the patients ' specimens , respectively .
In order to study whether ATX expression affects motility - dependent processes such as invasion and metastasis , we stably transfected full - length ATX cDNA into two non - expressing cell lines , parental and ras - transformed NIH3T3 ( clone7 ) cells .
In oral keratinocytes BAG - 1L , but not BAG - 1M and BAG - 1S , enhanced VDR transactivation in response to 1alpha , 25 - dihydroxyvitamin D3 .
We also show that VEGFR1 + cells express VLA - 4 ( also known as integrin alpha4beta1 ) , and that tumour - specific growth factors upregulate fibronectin - - a VLA - 4 ligand - - in resident fibroblasts , providing a permissive niche for incoming tumour cells .
Autochthonous vessels surrounding other tumors such as renal - cell carcinomas or malignant lymphomas also frequently expressed somatostatin receptors .
This dual activity , together with the initiation of signal transduction pathways by uPAR , is believed to influence cellular behaviour in angiogenesis , inflammation , wound repair and tumor progression / metastasis and open up the way for uPAR - based therapeutic approaches .
Dogs with lymphoma had similar glucose tolerance curves when compared with controls .
An analysis of the Pbx1 promoter region revealed that Evi - 1 upregulates Pbx1 transcription .
p24 family type 1 transmembrane proteins are required for insulin biosynthesis and secretion in pancreatic beta - cells .
The purpose of this study was to determine whether upregulation of PTEN gene by transfection wild - type PTEN gene to ovarian cancer cells can inhibit growth and migration and to explore the potential for PTEN gene therapy of ovarian cancers .
Angiogenin is up - regulated in the nucleus and cytoplasm in human primary breast carcinoma and is associated with markers of hypoxia but not survival .
Grossly , these tumors were small and had few feeding vessels .
Survivin partially antagonized the growth suppressive function of N - myc in SH - EP neuroblastoma cells during serum deprivation whereas FLIP ( L ) did not .
Recent advances in stem cell biology added the new concept that cancer originates from a single cancer - initiating cell .
The latter effect is called reperfusion injury and can cause as much damage as the ischemia .
Expression was evaluated in normal breast tissue and carcinoma , nuclei and cytoplasm , as intensity ( 0 to 3 + ) , and percentage of positive cells .
Lysophosphatidic acid ( LPA ) levels are elevated in ascites from ovarian cancer patients , but its potential role in ovarian cancer metastasis has just begun to be revealed .
Given the likely role of the evolutionarily conserved hADA3 in multiple coactivator complexes , inactivation of its function may allow E6 to perturb numerous cellular pathways during HPV oncogenesis .
Two natural models of ovine IUGR are those of hyperthermic exposure during pregnancy , and adolescent overfeeding , also during pregnancy .
NaF and Group I compounds induced internucleosomal DNA fragmentation in HL - 60 cells , whereas Group II compounds were inactive even in the presence of NaF .
It is also involved in the regulation of immune reactions , hematopoiesis and inflammatory state .
DPD expression did not significantly correlate with the occurrence of lymph node metastasis , nor was it different between primary oral cancer cells and cervical metastases .
Shear stress - induced transcriptional suppression of Tie1 is mediated by a negative shear stress response element , localized in a region of 250 bp within the promoter .
The vessels are derived from quiescient vessels within the fat .
Induction of the MKP - 1 protein in the MCF10A - Myc and MDA - MB - 231 breast epithelial cell lines was also seen .
The differences in IL - 12 levels were unremarkable .
From these results , it was suggested that PPARgamma activation might suppress COX - 2 expression via the nuclear factor - kappaB pathway in the ovarian carcinoma cells and that low expression of PPARgamma and high expression of COX - 2 might be involved in carcinogenesis and progression of ovarian tumours .
A small peptide derived from Flt - 1 ( VEGFR - 1 ) functions as an angiogenic inhibitor .
The present study was therefore designed to evaluate the expression of thrombospondin 1 and 2 ( TSP - 1 , TSP - 2 ) , TSP receptors CD36 and CD47 , and matrix - metalloproteases 2 and 9 ( MMP - , MMP - 9 ) in a rat prostate cancer model .
Based on the observation that netrin - 1 , the anti - apoptotic ligand for the dependence receptors DCC and UNC5H is up - regulated in colonic crypts in response to NF - kappaB , we show here that colorectal cancers from inflammatory bowel diseases patients have selected up - regulation of netrin - 1 .
These results indicate that the INK4B locus , similarly to INK4A - ARF , harbors two different splicing variants that can be involved in the regulation of both the p53 and retinoblastoma pathways , the two major molecular pathways in tumor suppression .
Experiments with nu / nu mice , nonobese diabetic - SCID mice , or activated spc enriched in specific cell subpopulations demonstrated that CD4 ( + ) , CD8 ( + ) , and NK cells are all needed to mediate the full anti - angiogenetic effect of IL - 12 .
Roles of cell adhesion molecules in tumor angiogenesis induced by cotransplantation of cancer and endothelial cells to nude rats .
Exposure to platelets resulted in significantly increased uPA and VEGF content of SKOV3 cell conditioned medium .
KISS1 transcript expression remained an independent prognosticator in multivariate analyses ( P = 0 . 017 ) .
They also serve as important intracellular signaling molecules that amplify the synovial inflammatory - proliferative response .
Inhibition of NO synthase reduces tumour growth both after systemic and regional ( ILP ) treatment .
The lack of treatment for worried - well patients with high - grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia combined with issues of recurrence and hormone resistance in prostate cancer survivors remains a major public health obstacle .
The E1B - 55kDa product has been shown to exhibit intrinsic transcriptional repression activity when localized to promoters , such as by fusion with the GAL4 DNA - binding domain , even in the absence of p53 .
Our laboratory has provided evidence that thrombin activates angiogenesis , a process which is essential in tumor growth and metastasis .
In addition , all of the endometrial cancer cell lines lost normal DCC expression .
At univariate analysis , overexpression of c - erbB2 did not affect either DFS or OAS ; tamoxifen had a greater effect on reducing the risk of recurrence than of death .
It has been suggested that the expression of this protein may be of prognostic significance in gastric , colorectal , and bladder carcinomas .
Conditioned media obtained from distinct tumour types with unique patterns of metastatic spread redirected fibronectin expression and cluster formation , thereby transforming the metastatic profile .
Anti - Fas treatment of these cells caused a significant decrease in p120 - GAP levels , ERK - 1 levels , and phosphorylation , as well as Grb2 - Sosl and MEK - 1 - ERK - 1 association .
Although 5 - FU is often used for the treatment of oral carcinoma , there has not been any investigation into the expression of these enzymes in metastatic lymph nodes or of their roles in the effectiveness of 5 - FU in treating lymph node - metastatic cancer .
VTAs can be divided into two groups : antiangiogenic agents and vascular - disrupting agents ( VDAs ) .
In recent years the family of ADAM proteases has been ascribed important roles in these processes .
Convenience of administration , tolerability , and patient factors not necessarily age may be considerations in decisions about adjuvant therapy after resection .
In the mammary carcinoma experiment , vascular permeability measured by means of B22956 / 1 in the animals treated with the antiangiogenic drug ( 0 . 0043317 + / - 0 . 0040418 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) ) was significantly less than in untreated animals ( 0 . 0090460 + / - 0 . 0043680 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) ) , whereas no significant difference was observed with Gd - DTPA - albumin ( 13 . 14 + / - 13 . 94 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) in treated animals and 18 . 07 + / - 11 . 92 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) in untreated animals ) .
The Wilms tumor suppressor gene WT1 induces G1 arrest and apoptosis in myeloblastic leukemia M1 cells .
In this study , we found that elevated levels of ErbB - 3 expression did not occur in the absence of AP - 2gamma in a panel of human mammary epithelial and fibroblasts cell lines .
Intensive insulin therapy may cause a transient worsening of retinopathy in patients with diabetes through increased retinal VEGF gene expression .
CONCLUSION : Merlin protein might contribute to the initiation of metastasis of NSCLC .
Vasodilator - stimulated phosphoprotein ( VASP ) is highly expressed in vascular endothelial cells , where it has been implicated in cellular reorganization during angiogenesis , as well as in endothelial retraction and changes in vessel permeability .
We have previously shown that massive apoptosis occurs when wild - type p53 or E2F - 1 expression is induced in glioma .
Clinically , elderly patients are more vulnerable to acute myocardial infarction ( AMI ) .
In all of these assays , equivalent treatments with a mixture of the HAH plus cortisol was significantly less effective .
To address this , the Severe Chronic Neutropenia International Registry ( SCNIR ) used its large database of chronic neutropenia patients treated with G - CSF to determine the incidence of malignant myeloid transformation in the two disorders , and its relationship to treatment and to other patient characteristics .
Transformation of mammary epithelial cells ( MECs ) from the normal to the neoplastic stage requires the dysregulation of tumor suppressor genes and proto - oncogenes .
After MNNG administration , rats were investigated by endoscopic observation , visualization of microvascular structure , and estimation of lectin binding sites .
The low apoptosis phenotype is dominant in Runx2 / MYC tumors , indicating that Runx2 confers a potent survival advantage to MYC - expressing tumor cells .
PURPOSE : Head and neck squamous cell carcinomas have been reported to overexpress hypoxia - inducible factor ( HIF ) - 1alpha , a transcription factor that promotes expression of angiogenesis factors and resistance to programmed and therapy - induced cell death .
Previous studies reported that the Tumor Susceptibility Gene 101 ( TSG101 ) is upregulated in selected human malignancies , and the expression of exogenous Tsg101 was suggested to transform immortalized fibroblasts in culture .
Our group seeks to determine the basic mechanisms underlying ES wound therapy , an area where understanding is currently limited .
S . c . injection into nude mice with mixed - cell populations formed tumors that approximate the ratio of vGPCR - expressing and KSHV latent gene - expressing cells .
Although tumor cells can exploit cytokine signaling to promote growth , invasion , and metastasis , the response of normal and premalignant epithelial cells to cytokines present in a developing tumor microenvironment remains unclear .
Immunostaining for endothelial nitric oxide synthase , vascular endothelial growth factor , and CD34 ( markers of vasoactivity and neoangiogenesis ) was also performed .
The particular characteristics of these alterations , 80 % of which are missense mutations leading to functionally heterogeneous proteins , make p53 a unique gene in the class of tumor suppressor genes .
9E3 / CEF4 , which is released from transformed chicken embryo fibroblasts ( CEF ) , is a member of the platelet factor 4 family of inflammatory proteins and may be the avian homolog of interleukin - 8 .
Furthermore , we found that RASSF1C over - expression enhances T47D cell invasion / migration in vitro .
In EC109 cells , growth arrest was by induction of apoptosis , associated with downregulation of Bcl - 2 , but not Bax .
The aim of this study was to examine immunohistochemical expression of these adhesion molecules , focusing on early gastric carcinomas , and to investigate differences between differentiated and undifferentiated gastric cancer at the early phase of carcinogenesis .
The intensity of MDM2 staining was not significant .
DLC1 protein level is elevated in more than 90 % of human breast tumors .
Intensity and patterns of localization in blood vessels was consistent in various tissues , but varied among different regions of the vascular bed .
The steroidal - based drug 2 - ethyloestradiol - 3 , 17 - O , O - bis - sulphamate ( STX243 ) has been developed as a potent antiangiogenic and antitumour compound .
Western blot analysis demonstrated increased active form SREBP in migrating as compared to non - migrating ECs population .
Controlling lymph node metastasis is currently a key issue in cancer therapy .
The cells were labeled with luciferase , a bioluminescence imaging reporter gene , to enable optical imaging .
CD154 , but not CD40 expression , significantly correlated with tumor stage .
Tumors of the retinal pigment epithelium metastasize to inguinal lymph nodes and spleen in tyrosinase - related protein 1 / SV40 T antigen transgenic mice .
Immunohistochemistry examinations in the human surgical specimens have shown that a downregulation of TSP - 1 during the progression of cervical carcinogenesis was accompanied by an emergence in the upregulation of stroma markers , alpha - smooth muscle actin ( alpha - SMA ) and desmin .
CONCLUSION : Exposure of clonal B lymphocytes from patients with CLL to simvastatin decreases viability significantly by the induction of apoptosis .
PD98059 , a specific MAPK / ERK kinase ( MEK ) 1 inhibitor , did not affect the induction of ets - 1 mRNA , whereas SB203580 , a specific p38 inhibitor , almost completely abrogated its induction .
RESULTS : DCE - MRI revealed greater enhancement in the peripheral area than in the central area in all the examined animal models .
A partial response ( PR ) was obtained after the first course with regression of multiple pulmonary metastases .
These studies therefore indicate a specific and a regulatory role of the PKCalpha isoform in three major endothelial cell functions that are important in the maintenance of microvascular homeostasis .
This review summarizes the current state of the art concerning the involvement of aberrant Pten function in the development of different biologic features of malignant gliomas , such as loss of cell - cycle control and uncontrolled cell proliferation , escape from apoptosis , brain invasion , and aberrant neoangiogenesis .
Diabetic foot wounds are consequences of the neuropathy and the small and large vessel disease that complicate diabetes .
AQP4 was expressed in the cell membrane and cytoplasm and was detected markedly stronger in normal than in cancer tissues .
This down - regulation is accompanied by a rapid cleavage of Tie1 and binding of the cleaved Tie1 45 kDa endodomain to Tie2 .
These inhibitors are directed towards the receptors of VEGF or intracellular substrates for the receptors .
The tree / fruit can be divided into several anatomical compartments : ( 1 ) seed , ( 2 ) juice , ( 3 ) peel , ( 4 ) leaf , ( 5 ) flower , ( 6 ) bark , and ( 7 ) roots , each of which has interesting pharmacologic activity .
In this work , we show that LPA stimulates invasion of primary ovarian cancer cells , but not ovarian epithelial or borderline ovarian tumor cells , although these benign cells indeed respond to LPA in cell migration .
Intriguingly , two recent papers have shed new light into this unexplored field , indicating that p53 plays a key role in TGF - beta - induced growth arrest and , unexpectedly , in the developmental effects of TGF - beta in early embryos .
ICAM - 3 also increased Akt phosphorylation , which caused an increase in cellular migration / invasion and MMP activities .
SREBP activation decreased as ECs migration slowed ; ( 2 ) Coincidental with SREBP activation , mRNA expression of its target genes such as low density lipoprotein receptor , HMG - CoA reductase , and fatty acid synthase also increased in migrating ECs population as detected by real - time PCR ; ( 3 ) Migration induced SREBP activation in ECs was inhibited by SREBP - acting protein RNAi and pharmacologically by 25 - hydroxycholesterol ; ( 4 ) Inhibition of SREBP led to decreased ECs migration in various models ; ( 5 ) Cells genetically deficient in SREBP - acting protein , S1P , or S2P , phenotypically exhibited impaired migration ; ( 6 ) SREBP inhibition in ECs suppressed the activity of small GTPase Cdc42 , a key molecule for ECs motility .
Thus , allogeneic injection of FM - MSC may be a new therapeutic strategy for the treatment of severe peripheral vascular disease .
Although vascular casts must be interpreted with caution in light of the possibility of incomplete filling and other artifacts , they are a valuable tool in the study of ocular vasoproliferation .
The stromal cells in turn produce factors that nurture the tumor .
RESULTS : All the primary breast cancers and the lymph node metastases were positive for Glut - 1 .
These accelerated relapses occur within 10 months of surgery for untreated patients .
The region contains a number of small open reading frames on each side and within the MSRs .
We previously reported that the murine fibroblast cell line LTA is tumorigenic but non - metastatic , and is non - responsive to a transfected H - ras oncogene .
METHODS : Grafted animals for corneal survival analysis were assigned to receive either spironolactone suspension ( orally , 100 mg / kg / day , n = 7 ) , phosphate - buffered saline ( PBS , orally , same volume as spironolactone , n = 9 ) or remained untreated ( n = 16 ) .
Pten signaling in gliomas .
We show that both substitution of glucose for pyruvate and treatment with 2 - deoxyglucose enhanced apoptosis induced by tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) - alpha , CD95 agonistic antibody , and TNF - related apoptosis - inducing ligand ( TRAIL ) .
Treatment with all - trans - RA decreased the level of these enzymes in the cellular , cell membrane , and conditioned medium compartments . ( ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS )
Therefore , in the situation without peritoneal involvement , hyperfibrinogenemia is a useful biomarker to predict the possible metastasis and worse clinical outcome in T2 gastric cancer .
The B ( 1 ) R appeared either as cytoplasmic dots or labeling on the apical cell membrane of the cells composing the epithelia with intestinal metaplasia ( 24 / 24 ; 100 % ) and carcinoma in situ ( 10 / 10 ; 100 % ) and in the epithelial cells of adenomas .
These results suggest that L - Car , possibly via its free radical scavenging and antioxidant properties , ameliorates MTX - induced oxidative organ injury and inhibits leukocyte apoptosis .
However , additional transfection of TrkA into SY5Y - p75 cells resulted in a significantly reduced rate of apoptosis even in the absence of NGF .
The formation of new blood vessels through the process of angiogenesis is critical in vascular development and homeostasis .
Regulation of the resident chromosomal copy of c - myc by c - Myb is involved in myeloid leukemogenesis .
Thus , mutation of beclin 1 or other autophagy genes may contribute to the pathogenesis of human cancers .
CONCLUSIONS : Angiostatin and thalidomide inhibit tumor growth , angiogenesis , and induce apoptosis in this xenograft model of cervical cancer .
Gene enhancement with IGF - 1 improved donor cell proliferation , survival , and engraftment after cell transplantation , perhaps mediated by enhanced angiogenesis and reduced apoptosis .
Furthermore , IL - 1beta - induced p38 mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) activation and upregulation of VEGF - C mRNA and protein in LLC cells was also suppressed by artemisinin or by the p38 MAPK inhibitor SB - 203580 , suggesting that p38 MAPK could serve as a mediator of proinflammatory cytokine - induced VEGF - C expression .
In addition , silencing of S6K1 induced apoptosis accompanied by a decrease in the phosphorylation of BAD and Bcl - 2 , similar to that observed with sunitinib treatment .
WIT003 , as well as pure 20 - HETE , stimulated EC proliferation by approximately 40 % .
Elevated c - src expression with angiotensin system inhibition may act to enhance intimal wound closure and to reduce luminal thrombogenicity in vivo .
These results indicate that Pbx1 is a target gene of Evi - 1 involved in Evi - 1 - mediated leukemogenesis .
Moreover , TKI - 31 dose - dependently suppressed HUVEC tube formation .
The incidence of high - grade lesions in the folate - deficient group was also 49 % lower than that in the control group ( 33 . 3 % versus 65 . 1 % , P = 0 . 007 ) .
Analysis of VLB cytotoxicity demonstrated a 3 - fold increase in VLB sensitivity in LoVo - mycANS cells .
Further investigations of this pathway with regard to preventing peritoneal fibrosis should be performed to maintain the integrity of the peritoneal membrane in peritoneal dialysis patients .
Macrophages can be activated in a classical or alternative manner in parallel with the T ( H ) 1 / T ( H ) 2 dichotomy , respectively .
Reciprocal bone marrow transplants that involved both wild - type and PECAM - 1 - deficient mice revealed that the impaired angiogenic response resulted from a loss of endothelial , but not leukocyte , PECAM - 1 .
VEGF gene expression and capillary density in the old donor - derived group were lower than those in the young donor - derived group but higher than those in the control group ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
Indeed , we would hypothesize that these angiogenic markers - - especially the angiopoietins - - do not necessarily translate into new vessel formation in congestive heart failure ( CHF ) , but may well reflect disturbances of endothelial integrity in CHF .
Together , the results of this study identify molecular mechanisms that initiate hemangiosarcoma , a key step in understanding safety concerns that can impact drug decision processes , and identified hypoxia as a possible contributing factor for 2 - BE - induced hemangiosarcoma in mice .
Angiogenesis , a multi - step process which involves endothelial cell proliferation , adhesion , migration , and basement membrane ( BM ) degradation , is essential for tumor metastasis .
When TB4 expression in B16F10 cells was inhibited by the infection with small hairpin ( sh ) RNA of TB4 cloned in lentiviral vector , tumor cell migration was retarded .
The issue is complicated because both disorders have a propensity for MDS or AML as part of their natural history .
Cytotoxic chemotherapy resistance is linked to limited therapeutic options and poor prognosis .
We hypothesized that the hemolysis induced by 2 - BE would result in local tissue hypoxia , a well - documented trigger for endothelial cell proliferation leading to hemangiosarcoma .
Despite several advances in therapeutic options , the disease remains incurable .
The long latency of prostate cancer development provides an opportunity to intervene with agents of known mechanisms at various stages of disease progression .
A pair of primers bracketing the XhoI site were designed to synthesize the EBV DNA fragment from nucleotides 169 , 081 - 169 , 577 by using the polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) method .
Potential roles for focal adhesion kinase in development .
Cytokines and growth factors induce tyrosine phosphorylation of signal transducers and activators of transcription ( STATs ) that directly activate gene expression .
The extracellular matrix ( ECM ) directs all phases of healing following trauma or disease and is therefore a natural source of prosthetic mesh material that can be used strategically to induce the repair and restoration of soft tissues following surgery .
Here we provide evidence that lactate and pyruvate regulate hypoxia - inducible gene expression independently of hypoxia by stimulating the accumulation of hypoxia - inducible Factor 1alpha ( HIF - 1alpha ) .
In contrast , the incidence and density of somatostatin receptors in peritumoral vessels was low in well - differentiated gastrointestinal and bronchial carcinoids , in contrast to the high density of such receptors in the carcinoid tumor tissue .
Mitochondrial complex II , or succinate dehydrogenase , is a key enzymatic complex involved in both the tricarboxylic acid ( TCA ) cycle and oxidative phosphorylation as part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain .
Immunohistochemical staining demonstrated VEGF in the tissues surrounding the Matrigel plugs containing AdCMV . VEGF165 up to 3 weeks after injection , whereas no VEGF was found in the control plugs with AdCMV . beta gal .
CONCLUSIONS : Irreversible PHT is strongly associated with impaired endothelial cell apoptosis and antiapoptotic signaling from perivascular inflammatory cells .
In the colon carcinoma experiment , mean permeability and perfusion decreased by 51 % ( from 5 . 2 + / - 1 . 1 to 2 . 5 + / - 0 . 8 ml / 100 ml ) and 59 % ( from 0 . 00165 + / - 5 . 1 to 0 . 0067 + / - 4 . 8 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) of tissue ) , respectively , in all animals after antiangiogenic drug administration .
Survivin expression in breast carcinoma : correlation with apoptosis and prognosis .
Interleukin - 6 ( IL - 6 ) is proinflammatory cytokine that produces multifunctional effects .
Previously we demonstrated that N1 ( ic ) and N2 ( ic ) could transform E1A immortalized baby rat kidney cells ( RKE ) in vitro .
Here , we show that a portion of laminin - 332 , termed G45 , which is proteolytically removed and absent in normal tissues , is prominently expressed in most human SCC tumors and plays an important role in human SCC tumorigenesis .
CONCLUSIONS : ITCs circulate even in early stages of disease .
This review will summarize the current position of CECs , EPCs and EMPs in cell biology terms , with particular emphasis on their relationship to malignant disease .
Nude mice bearing ovarian cancers were treated with hPNAS - 4 - p / liposome .
Overexpression of AP - 2A resulted in a decreased proliferation rate and inhibitin of colony formation .
Undoubtedly , blood vessels growth regulation is a vital aspect in health and disease .
Levels of FGFR1 , but not FGFR2 , were increased in embryonic aorta cultured under 5 % O ( 2 ) relative to room air .
The integrin alpha5beta1 - Fibronectin interaction was demonstrated on the chip .
In the presence of both glucose and glutamine , the Crabtree effect decreased .
The decreased expression of SEMA3B , SEMA3F , and plexin - A3 was confirmed in stage 3 ovarian tumors .
He noted that wounds , like tumors , secrete VPF , causing blood vessels to leak plasma fibrinogen , which stimulates blood vessel growth and provides a matrix on which they can spread .
Recent studies , however , indicate that even under normal physiological conditions certain activities of p53 participate in homeostatic regulation of metabolic processes and that these activities are important for prevention of cancer .
A novel peptide ligand , A5 - 1 ( VILVLF ) , with high affinity to integrin alpha5beta1 was identified from the hexapeptide libraries with this chip - based screening method on the basis of a competitive inhibition assay .
These included 40 ( 56 % ) metastases from a primary lung carcinoma and 31 ( 44 % ) metastases from some nonpulmonary carcinoma .
PURPOSE : Antiangiogenic therapy is considered as an effective strategy for controlling the growth and metastasis of tumors .
However , there is no report to show that DATS induced apoptosis in vitro and inhibited CT26 cancer cells in vivo on a murine allograft animal model .
Metastatic lesions were confirmed by immunohistochemistry .
Desensitization of prostaglandin F2 alpha - stimulated inositol phosphate generation in NIH - 3T3 fibroblasts transformed by overexpression of normal c - Ha - ras - 1 , c - Ki - ras - 2 and c - N - ras genes .
Somatostatin receptors were detected in peritumoral veins of various human cancer tissue specimens .
Topo I expression in paired primary lymph node metastases were studied for concordance .
Notably , ARD1 was critical for transcriptionally regulating a number of AR target genes that are involved in prostate tumorigenesis .
In conclusion , the level of nm23 - H1 gene product expression does not significantly reveal prognostic value in node - positive lung cancers .
Activated platelets enhance SKOV3 human ovarian cancer cell invasion through Matrigel and increase the amount of uPA and VEGF secreted into SKOV3 cell conditioned medium .
These RNAs were not detectable in reticuloendotheliosis virus - transformed T cells .
CONCLUSIONS : Our findings suggest that transcriptional repression of HRK is caused by promoter hypermethylation in PCNSL , and that the loss of HRK associated with the methylation profile of other genes is a potential step in the modulation of cellular death by apoptosis during PCNSL tumorigenesis .
It also promotes endothelial differentiation into capillary - like structures in an in vitro assay and is angiogenic in the chick chorionallantoic membrane .
The data presented here demonstrate that transcriptional activation of cyclin D1 can oncogenically transform B - cells in concert with a myc gene .
On the other hand , when cells were pre - incubated in glucose - supplemented medium , oxygen consumption was affected only when succinate was used as the oxidizable substrate .
At the time of brain biopsy , the primary site of tumor origin was known in 45 cases and unknown in 30 cases .
This study aims to verify the relationship between p63 expression and several clinicopathological features and tumor markers of clinical significance in breast pathology including key regulators of the cell cycle , oncogenes , apoptosis - related proteins , metalloproteinases and their inhibitors .
Under normal conditions insulin regulates expression of hexokinase Type II isoenzyme , which is predominantly expressed in muscle .
Therefore , our results indicate that emodin inhibits HER - 2 / neu tyrosine kinase activity and preferentially suppresses growth and induces differentiation of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing cancer cells .
However , during each phase of the disease , low levels of TGF - beta RII were detected when compared with the hematopoietic cells of normal donors .
p75 mediated apoptosis in neuroblastoma cells is inhibited by expression of TrkA .
Furthermore , Ang II stimulated sFlt - 1 production in a dose - and time - dependent manner from human villous explants and cultured trophoblasts but not from endothelial cells , suggesting that trophoblasts are the primary source of sFlt - 1 during pregnancy .
EPOX inhibits angiogenesis by degradation of Mcl - 1 through ERK inactivation .
METHOD : The intratumor microvessel density ( IMVD ) , apoptotic index ( AI ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression were detected by immunohistochemistry SABC and terminal uridine deoxynucleotidyl transferase mediated nick end labeling ( TUNEL ) methods in34 LSCC patients .
Low - level X - radiation effects on functional vascular changes in Syrian hamster cheek pouch epithelium during hydrocarbon carcinogenesis .
The body has three equally important interactive immune defense systems , all of which are profoundly disrupted with major burn injury .
Additionally , this sequence shares some homology with the DNA binding domain of GCN4 and c - jun protein .
In the meantime , it could also greatly reduce the G1 and S , with obviously dose - response relationship .
Autotaxin ( ATX ) , an exo - nucleotide pyrophosphatase and phosphodiesterase , was originally isolated as a potent stimulator of tumor cell motility .
Overexpression of c - Ski inhibited TGF - beta signaling in OCUM - 2MLN cells .
After over 30 years of theorizing , the use of angiogenesis inhibitors as anticancer therapy has finally moved from the realm of research to reality .
In this review we will discuss the mechanism of action , as well as the preclinical and clinical results , of one of the most promising antitubulin agents : the combretastatin A4 - phosphate derivative , AVE8062A .
This study investigated the expression of TS and DPD in cervical lymph node metastases and its relationship with primary OSCC , as well as the interaction between these enzymes and Kangai 1 ( KAI1 / CD82 ) which is a metastasis suppressor protein .
The increase in tumorigenicity and metastatic ability could be explained by the increase in Mr 72 , 000 type IV collagenase activity and angiogenesis attributed to the induction of IL - 8 after irradiation .
These data suggest that inhibition of B16F10 melanoma metastasis by rk - 2 was caused by inhibition of neovascularization and reduction of matrix metalloproteinase expression .
beta - catenin signaling controls metastasis in Braf - activated Pten - deficient melanomas .
The metastatic potentials of several human prostate cancer xenograft models , LAPC - 4 , LAPC - 9 , PC3 and CWR22Rv - 1 were compared .
Combined mutations of p27 ( - / - ) and Men1 ( + / - ) , in contrast , did not exhibit noticeable synergistic stimulation of Rb kinase activity , cell proliferation , and tumor growth .
Expression of wild - type VASP induces marked membrane ruffling and formation of prominent stress fibers in bovine aortic endothelial cells .
METHODS : Human fat tissue fragments from surgery were placed in 96 - well plates , embedded in fibrin thrombin clot and overlaid with cell culture media containing 20 % fetal bovine serum .
Because the intravenously injected lipoplexes migrated within seconds to lungs , we checked whether the effects of immediate contact with serum correlate with lung lipofection efficiency of different DOTAP - based formulations .
So we established that these pathways were crucial to endothelial cell proliferation under vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and fibroblast growth factor ( FGF ) stimulation .
Nrf2 heterodimerizes with small Maf protein to strongly activate transcription through the Maf recognition element ( MARE ) and Keap1 is an inhibitory regulator of Nrf2 .
At 6 weeks , animals were killed , and flaps were analyzed for length , width , and weight ; perfused with fluorescein or lead oxide ; and examined histologically .
PURPOSE : To describe visual acuity and angiographic outcomes of juxtafoveal choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) treated with photodynamic therapy and verteporfin ( PDT ) .
Lewis lung carcinoma , with a mechanism unrelated to cytotoxicity for tumor cells .
Chronic inflammation and cancer are intimately associated .
The rabbits were sacrificed and the specimens were procured at 3 days , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 and 6 weeks after surgery for histological observation , Chinese ink perfusion and CD34 immunohistochemistry .
The mechanism of TP induction is not yet completely clear , but TNF , IL10 and other cytokines have been clearly shown to induce its expression .
We suggest that the rarity of observed BRCA1 mutations in sporadic breast and ovarian cancer is due to the greater likelihood of BRCA1 inactivation by non - mutational mechanisms such as methylation .
By transcriptional activation and other means , p53 is able to contribute to the regulation of glycolysis , oxidative phosphorylation , glutaminolysis , insulin sensitivity , nucleotide biosynthesis , mitochondrial integrity , fatty acid oxidation , antioxidant response , autophagy and mTOR signalling .
Metronomic 5 - fluorouracil , oxaliplatin and irinotecan in colorectal cancer .
High expression of VEGF correlated with a shorter overall survival ( log rank , p = 0 . 042 ) .
VEGFR1 - positive haematopoietic bone marrow progenitors initiate the pre - metastatic niche .
Non - specific PKC inhibitors staurosporine and bisindolylmaleimide II as well as inhibitors specific to conventional PKCs ( Go6976 ) and PKC - delta ( rottlerin ) attenuated NF - kappaB activation in BPDE treated cells to a varying degree indicating a possible link between PKC down - regulation and the attenuation of NF - kappaB activity by TSC phenolic fraction .
IGF - 1 enhances cell proliferation and survival .
2G7 transiently inhibited growth of established MDA - 231 subcutaneous tumors .
Pathological analyses indicate that a significant large population of human ductal cancers may utilize the EGFR - GEP100 - Arf6 - AMAP1 pathway for their malignancy .
p53 targets involved in cell - cycle arrest and apoptosis showed the same mode of regulation , indicating that , in vivo , both are activated simultaneously .
VEGF might be an important angiogenic factor , and could promote tumor angiogenesis in LSCC .
Islet endothelial activation and oxidative stress gene expression is reduced by IL - 1Ra treatment in the type 2 diabetic GK rat .
These observations suggest that stem / progenitor cells in the mammary gland may be especially susceptible to oncogenic transformation .
After removal of fibroblasts by exposure to G - 418 , the tumor cells exhibited increased metastatic ability and human K - ras oncogene mRNA , suggesting an intimate interaction between H - 3 cells and fibroblasts influencing the function of transfected human K - ras oncogene .
Angiogenesis is a key event in the progression of malignant gliomas .
In contrast , NIH 3T3 cells are non - tumorigenic but are ras - responsive and become metastatic when transfected with ras .
In contrast , there was no association between the expression of AP - 2alpha or AP - 2beta and the level of ErbB - 3 , or between AP - 2alpha and AP - 2gamma double positivity and ErbB - 3 expression .
Platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule ( PECAM ) - 1 has been previously implicated in endothelial cell migration ; additionally , anti - PECAM - 1 antibodies have been shown to inhibit in vivo angiogenesis .
Experiments showed that mutant embryos and mutant cells in culture experienced genome instability , as do cells in FA patients .
We investigated here whether 6 popular antitumor compounds modify the cytotoxic activity of NaF against human squamous cell carcinoma ( HSC - 2 ) and human promyelocytic leukemia ( HL - 60 ) cell lines .
Lysates of cells from the granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor ( GM - CSF ) - dependent myeloid leukemic cell line TF1 were separated into high molecular weight ( HMW ) pellets of intact DNA and supernatants of fragmented low MW ( LMW ) DNA , and the DNA purified from these fractions was quantified .
Importantly , HMGA2 partially replaces the function of hTERT during the tumorigenic transformation of normal human fibroblasts .
Taken together , these results lend great support to use PDGFRbeta antagonists in combinations with other antitumor and / or anti - angiogenic agents in the treatment of a variety of cancers .
In contrast , therapeutic angiogenesis is based on the concept that coronary collateral development may be stimulated by pharmacological or molecular means and can limit myocardial ischemia .
Expression of the cytolytic effectors perforin , granzyme B9 , and the granule membrane protein TIA1 were examined in 24 putative NK - cell lymphomas , 18 postthymic T - cell lymphomas ( one case CD8 + CD56 + and three anaplastic large cell lymphomas ( ALCL ) , three T - lymphoblastic lymphomas , and 20 B - cell lymphomas .
Given its recently - described role as an inflammatory mediator , VEGF could also contribute to the inflammatory responses observed in cerebral ischemia .
CONCLUSIONS : VEGF - A ( 165 ) is one of the major angiogenesis regulators among the ligands ' family of VEGF , whereas its receptors KDR , and most probably Flt - 1 , may contribute to a poor prognosis ( angiogenic ) phenotype , as indicated by their upregulated MRNA levels in stage III neuroblastoma .
In this study , we address the mechanism by which VEGFR - 2 phosphorylation is regulated by dopamine .
Furthermore , induction of MKP - 1 correlated with the inhibition of extracellular signal - regulated kinase ( ERK1 / 2 ) and c - Jun N - terminal kinase ( JNK ) activity , whereas p38 activity was minimally affected .
This allowed coexpression of the two proteins and a comparison with the same vector containing either v - erbA or v - myb only .
At later stages , branches of radial arteries penetrated the periphery forming an extensive mesh of capillaries on the concave surface .
OBJECTIVE : We transfected ovarian cancer cells and administered recombinant plasmid encoding hPNAS - 4 to nude mice bearing ovarian cancer , aiming to evaluate the effect of hPNAS - 4 against ovarian cancer in vitro and in vivo .
Neovascularization , an essential event for the growth of solid tumors , is regulated by a number of angiogenic factors .
Murine leukemia L1210 cells rendered deficient in glutathione peroxidase ( GPX ) and phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase ( PHGPX ) by Se deprivation ( L . Se ( - ) cells ) were found to be more sensitive to tert - butyl hydroperoxide ( t - BuOOH ) cytotoxicity than Se - replete controls ( L . Se ( + ) cells ) .
Depending on the cell type , expression of ANGPT1 and ANGPT2 was either activated or repressed in response to hypoxia or AdCA5 .
We have investigated the putative role of rho proteins from Aplysia californica as transforming GTPases utilizing the wild - type and a Val - 14 mutant , equivalent to the oncogenic Val - 12 mutation of ras genes found in animal and human tumors .
We show that restoration of FOXO3a in FOXO3a - deficient LAC cells increases sensitivity to apoptosis caused by a DNA - damaging intermediate of NNK .
Therefore , we used a targeted mutant mouse model to test the hypothesis that monoallelic deletion of beclin 1 promotes tumorigenesis .
RESULTS : The overall incidence of BRAF mutation ( 89 / 183 , 49 % ) was very similar to other large studies of Caucasian populations .
Autocrine angiogenic vascular prosthesis with bone marrow transplantation .
Non - invasive grading of primary brain tumours : results of a comparative study between SPET with 123I - alpha - methyl tyrosine and PET with 18F - deoxyglucose .
The main objective of the study was to determine the mean visual acuity change .
Regardless how death is inflicted , every cancer cell must die , be it fast or slow .
We examined transformation - induced alterations in proliferative and invasive abilities , responses to the invasion and proliferation - regulating growth factor TGFbeta and changes in gene expression for invasion - associated enzymes or enzyme inhibitors .
Modulation of angiogenesis and progelatinase a by thrombin receptor mimetics and antagonists .
The apparent molecular weights of the collagenolytic enzymes were determined by electrophoresis of cell extracts and concentrated conditioned medium in type IV collagen - embedded polyacrylamide gels followed by renaturation and activation of the enzymes within the gels .
FM - MSC and BM - MSC both expressed major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) class I but not MHC class II antigens and did not elicit allogeneic lymphocyte proliferation in mixed lymphocyte culture .
The results are consistent with the hypothesis that the activity of COX - II is associated with the formation of functional CL via its stimulation of angiogenesis .
The reduced CK1delta activity did not affect early lesion formation during tumorigenesis , suggesting that impaired CK1delta activity reduces the probability for outgrowth of in situ carcinomas to invasive carcinomas .
CONCLUSIONS : LDH5 is overexpressed in NSCLC and could hence serve as an additional marker for malignancy .
Mathematical models and empirical observations are used to define the adaptive advantage of aerobic glycolysis that would explain its remarkable prevalence in human cancers .
The activity of succinate dehydrogenase was inhibited by 70 % by 3 - BrPA treatment .
