There was no correlation between HSP27 expression and clinical stage , lymph node metastasis and histological grade .
Taken together , our findings suggest that ICAM - 3 stimulates cancer cell migration / invasion via ICAM - 3 / Akt / CREB / MMP pathway regardless of p53 and PTEN status , and this reflects the possibility that ICAM - 3 could be considered as a candidate for anti - cancer drug development and as a cancer diagnostic marker .
This study suggests that angiogenin may be important in breast cancer progression and that , through its relationship with ER , it may be a target for tamoxifen .
IMPLICATIONS : These findings also contrast with the demonstration of nm23 metastasis suppressor activity in murine melanoma and with the correlation of loss of nm23 expression in breast cancer with poor prognosis .
The vascular insulin - like growth factor ( IGF ) - 1 system includes the IGFs , the IGF - 1 receptor ( IGF - 1R ) , and multiple binding proteins .
The remaining SVLT mutants presented different degrees of ability to inhibit differentiation ( as shown by the expression of tissue - specific markers in transformants ) .
In this study , the aim was to investigate the effect of phenolic acids found abundantly in vegetables , i . e . gallic acid ( GA ) , caffeic acid ( CA ) and protocatechuic acid ( PCA ) , on the inhibition of gastric adenocarcinoma ( AGS ) cell metastasis .
Normal adult vasculature is generally quiescent in nature , with endothelial cells dividing approximately every 10 years .
Neuroblastoma cells and Chang hepatocytes are then plated separately with the conditioned medium and their own standard growth medium as controls .
METHOD : The intratumor microvessel density ( IMVD ) , apoptotic index ( AI ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression were detected by immunohistochemistry SABC and terminal uridine deoxynucleotidyl transferase mediated nick end labeling ( TUNEL ) methods in34 LSCC patients .
The later expression of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 in fibroblasts suggests a role in extracellular matrix remodeling .
In this study , we have examined the ability of the purine analogue 8 - aminoadenosine to acutely reduce glucose consumption by regulating localization and expression of key glucose transporters .
Aberrant angiogenesis leads to a variety of diseases , such as ischemia and cancer .
The A431 cells exhibited typical in vitro cell adhesion to the endothelial F - 2 cells .
Actin signaling controls serum response factor ( SRF ) activity via SRF interaction with the myocardin - related transcriptional activator ( MRTF ) - A and tethering to a single CArG box sequence within the CCN1 promoter .
c - erbB2 was overexpressed in 43 of 145 patients ( 29 . 7 % ) , which directly correlated with tumor size and inversely with estrogen receptor ( ER ) level .
HYPOTHESIS : This study was designed to compare coronary collateral circulation ( CCC ) in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy ( PDR ) with that in patients without DR .
2ME2 resulted in decreased nuclear HIF - 1alpha - binding activity and affected the expression of downstream genes , such as bid , a proapoptotic bcl - 2 family member , and vascular endothelial growth factor , a proangiogenic cytokine .
We also show that Akt pathway mediates IGF1 - R - induced Bcl - x ( L ) expression at transcriptional level .
OBJECTIVE : The aim of this study was the follow - up of VEGF expression during the course of CML .
Angiogenesis : initiation and control .
These data indicate that endogenous IL - 1 is a mediator of ischaemic and excitotoxic brain damage , and that inhibitors of IL - 1 action may be of therapeutic value in the treatment of acute or chronic neuronal death .
In contrast , there was no association between the expression of AP - 2alpha or AP - 2beta and the level of ErbB - 3 , or between AP - 2alpha and AP - 2gamma double positivity and ErbB - 3 expression .
The effect of perfluorocarbon - based artificial oxygen carriers on tissue - engineered trachea .
In the presence of both glucose and glutamine , the Crabtree effect decreased .
CONCLUSION : The low expression or absence of stromal SPARC was an independent prognostic factor for poor prognosis of colon cancer .
The system also permits precise aiming and delivery of 810 - nm wavelength photocoagulation laser energy to target FVs on a real - time ICG angiogram image of the choroidal vasculature .
The effects on endothelial cells occur in vitro at low drug concentrations , which do not affect microtubule gross morphology , do not cause microtubule bundling or microtubule loss and do not induce cell cycle arrest , apoptosis , or cell death .
PURPOSE : Head and neck squamous cell carcinomas have been reported to overexpress hypoxia - inducible factor ( HIF ) - 1alpha , a transcription factor that promotes expression of angiogenesis factors and resistance to programmed and therapy - induced cell death .
Interference with Dll4 - Notch signaling may be particularly desirable in tumors that have highly induced Dll4 - Notch pathway .
Antibodies developed to human endosialin were used to investigate endosialin expression and function in human prenatal brain pericytes and pericytes residing in tumors .
MDM2 as a predictor of prostate carcinoma outcome : an analysis of Radiation Therapy Oncology Group Protocol 8610 .
These data provide a mechanism whereby VASP can influence endothelial migration and organization during capillary formation and modulate vascular permeability via effects on endothelial cell contractility .
Effects of spironolactone on corneal allograft survival in the rat .
The transforming growth factor beta ( TGFbeta ) family has critical roles in the regulation of fertility .
CONCLUSION : Osteopontin siRNA can inhibit U251 cells invasion via the down - regulation of uPA , MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 levels , and promote apoptosis through induction of Bax expression and inhibition of Bcl 2 level .
The members of an Epstein - Barr virus microRNA cluster cooperate to transform B lymphocytes .
Levels of expression of CYR61 and CTGF are prognostic for tumor progression and survival of individuals with gliomas .
Tumor endothelial cell targeted cyclic RGD - modified heparin derivative : inhibition of angiogenesis and tumor growth .
Patients have been treated between January 1996 and October 1997 .
Arterial gene transfer of naked DNA encoding for a secreted angiogenic cytokine , thus , represents a potential alternative to recombinant protein administration for stimulating collateral vessel development .
CONCLUSION : This study identifies specific components of the Robo signaling apparatus that work together to guide directional migration of endothelial cells .
The initial wave of ERK activity ( 5 - 120 min ) was refractory to integrin antagonists , whereas the sustained activity ( 4 - 20 h ) depended on integrin alphavbeta3 , but not beta1 integrins .
Moreover , we observed an increase in apoptosis of latent gene - expressing cells after the pharmacologic deletion of the vGPCR - expressing cells .
Tumor cells adapt to hypoxia by modulating their phenotype .
However , the regulation of adipose tissue angiogenesis in humans has not been extensively studied .
Here , we compared the sensitivity of RCC cells lacking VHL gene function with that of RCC cells expressing the wild - type VHL gene ( wtVHL ) after exposure to various stresses .
We examined the effect of distraction rate on blood vessel growth in intramembraneous ossification after vertical distraction osteogenesis in the human mandible .
The median number of therapies applied , including initial surgery , was 5 ( range 3 - 7 therapies ) .
In these conditions , the rates of oxygen uptake , the CO2 evolution and the changes in the redox states of cytochromes indicate that glucose is preferred by Ehrlich ascites tumour cells as energy substrate .
Interestingly , significant associations were found between CYR61 expression versus tumor grade , pathology , gender , and age at diagnosis .
TTF - 1 staining was present in 31 of the 40 ( 78 % ) metastatic lung carcinomas , but in only 1 of the 31 ( 3 % ) metastatic nonpulmonary carcinomas ( a small - cell carcinoma of the sinonasal tract ) .
We investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying NRP1 - mediated angiogenesis by analyzing the association of NRP1 and KDR .
Furthermore , i . p . treatment with Hyp reduces acute PMN recruitment and enhances resolution in a pulmonary bleomycin - induced inflammation model , significantly reducing consequent fibrosis .
TEL is a member of the ETS family of transcription factors that interacts with the mSin3 and SMRT corepressors to regulate transcription .
The keratin 5 ( K5 ) promoter drives transgenic expression to the basal cell layer of stratified epithelia .
2G7 transiently inhibited growth of established MDA - 231 subcutaneous tumors .
By modulating beta - catenin levels in a mouse model of melanoma that is based on melanocyte - specific Pten loss and Braf ( V600E ) mutation , we demonstrate that beta - catenin is a central mediator of melanoma metastasis to the lymph nodes and lungs .
These data suggest that VEGF plays a role in the biology of CML and that VEGF inhibitors should be investigated in CML .
Furthermore , elevated expression of VEGFR - 1 facilitates the establishment of hematogenous metastases in gastric cancer .
Impact of tumor cell VEGF expression on the in vivo efficacy of vandetanib ( ZACTIMA ; ZD6474 ) .
Bee venom induces apoptosis and inhibits expression of cyclooxygenase - 2 mRNA in human lung cancer cell line NCI - H1299 .
However , we show here that VEGF , specifically through VEGFR2 , induces phosphorylation of two serine residues on PLCbeta3 , and this was confirmed in an ex vivo embryoid body model .
An immediate decrease in corneal clouding was observed in groups treated with additional low - or high - dose prednisolone from day 9 after inoculation .
RT - PCR and western blot techniques were used to validate target gene expression .
Single cell transplants showed that a common precursor contributes to both the hemopoietic and endothelial lineages , thus demonstrating the presence of an adult hemangioblast .
Moreover , there is a positive correlation between phosphoS727 - Stat3 expression and Gleason score in these prostate cancer tissues ( P = 0 . 05 ) .
Simultaneously , MMP - 2 expression increases with malignancy .
( 3 ) .
The reference intervals for serum IL - 8 and urine IL - 8 corrected by creatinine ( Cr ) were 15 . 9 - 430 . 3 pg / mL and 0 . 0 - 28 . 4 pg / mg Cr , respectively .
These observations provide evidence that enhanced proliferation in N - ras - transformed cells compromises teratocarcinoma cell differentiation by a mechanism that transiently suppresses homeobox gene induction and implies a central role for homeobox genes in RA - induced cell differentiation .
Activated Hck and membrane - anchored Cbl are present in similar subcellular localizations and co - immunoprecipitate , suggesting that their interaction is required for subsequent ubiquitination and degradation .
VEGF165 expressed by a replication - deficient recombinant adenovirus vector induces angiogenesis in vivo .
The role of hypoxia in 2 - butoxyethanol - induced hemangiosarcoma .
Our results suggest that blood flow limits glucose supply to tumor tissue at much higher flow rates than in normal brain which , in turn , is associated with a decrease in tumor glucose utilization .
Inhibition by N - ( phosphonacetyl ) - L - aspartate of Ehrlich ascites tumour growth and glucose transport .
Over - expression of either rho gene was sufficient to confer anchorage - and serum - independent growth .
An extensive array of compounds is currently in preclinical development , with many now entering the clinic and / or achieving approval from the US Food and Drug Administration .
Studies , both in human and animal models support the notion that , various angiogenic growth factors and progenitor cells can enhance new blood vessels .
The data presented here demonstrate that transcriptional activation of cyclin D1 can oncogenically transform B - cells in concert with a myc gene .
Consistent with these findings is the induction under hypoxic conditions of the HIF - 1 protein .
[ mRNA expression of metastasis - suppressor gene nm23 in carcinoma of buccal mucosa . II . Quantitative reverse transcription PCR amplification ] .
In each experimental situation , the casts provided a valuable three dimensional representation of the newly formed blood vessels and permitted subclassification of the vessels within normal and proliferating vascular networks .
The hypothesis that modifications of activity and / or expression of nitric oxide synthase ( NOS ) isozymes might play a role in these modifications , via enhanced local production of nitric oxide , was tested in this study .
Most Group I compounds except doxorubicin ( which induced DNA fragmentation less effectively than others ) activated caspase 3 more efficiently than Group II compounds .
CONCLUSIONS : LDH5 is overexpressed in NSCLC and could hence serve as an additional marker for malignancy .
Convergence of p53 and TGF - beta signaling networks .
beta2 - glycoprotein I ( beta2GPI ) is proteolytically cleaved by plasmin in its domain V ( nicked beta2GPI ) , resulting in binding to plasminogen .
No tumours were induced within the latent period for tumour production by control cells transfected with NIH3T3 cell DNA ( 40 - 60 days ) .
Monitoring peroxide - induced changes in GSH and GSSG gave consistent results ; e . g . , glucose - depleted L . Se ( + ) cells exhibited a first order loss of GSH that was substantially faster than that of glucose - depleted L . Se ( - ) cells .
We have previously reported in established breast lines that HIF - 1alpha levels in the presence of oxygen leads to the Warburg effect .
Eleven genes were identified whose expression changed significantly in response to carcinogen treatment .
However , tumor incidence was lower and life span was significantly longer in WAP - mutCK1delta / WAP - T bi - transgenic animals .
Complexes containing VEGF165 , NRP1 , and KDR were also formed in an intercellular fashion by co - culture of EC expressing KDR only , with cells expressing NRP1 only , for example , breast carcinoma cells .
Antibodies to PA - 1 dose - dependently , and significantly , inhibited the invasive and migratory potential of human HT1080 fibrosarcoma cells , as did an antibody to uPA and the plasmin inhibitor aprotinin .
During the last decade , a significant body of evidence has accumulated , indicating that expression of the components of the IGF system are regulated by multiple factors , including growth factors , cytokines , lipoproteins , reactive oxygen species , and hemodynamic forces .
Research and discovery of the first human cancer virus , HTLV - 1 .
In conclusion , p53 and VEGF were not correlated with prognosis in patients with stage II and III SCC of the esophagus .
The nature of these substrates was confirmed by proteolysis techniques .
Our previous in vitro studies in a rat model indicated that insulin - like growth factor - I ( IGF - I ) is a potent angiogenic agent for fetal lung endothelial cells .
Immune consequences of burn injury .
miRNA - 126 , an EC - restricted miRNA , regulates vascular integrity and developmental angiogenesis .
Fractional tumor growth was determined and immunohistochemical analysis of tumors was used to determine degree of angiogenesis .
RESULTS : Abnormal E - cadherin and beta - catenin staining correlated with depth of tumour invasion in differentiated - type tumours .
Irreversible PHT cases were also more likely to show compensatory upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor and new small vessel formation at the sites of native vessel stenosis or occlusion ( p less than 0 . 001 ) .
Finally , anti - p53 monoclonal antibodies only slightly affected in vitro phosphorylation reactions , whereas a p53 molecule from a simian virus 40 - free , chemically transformed human cell line was not phosphorylated in vitro under any condition tested .
On day 21 , all rats received 5 x 10 ( 5 ) hepatoma cells intrasplenically .
In this review we will discuss the mechanism of action , as well as the preclinical and clinical results , of one of the most promising antitubulin agents : the combretastatin A4 - phosphate derivative , AVE8062A .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the expression of PTEN and loss of heterozygosity ( LOH ) of its epigenetic microsatellite in gastric carcinoma and explore their roles in progression of gastric carcinoma .
BACKGROUND : Angiogenesis is essential for tumor growth and relies on the production of angiogenic factors .
OBJECTIVES : Strategies to inhibit the VEGF pathway , including antibodies to VEGF , antibodies to the extracellular domain of VEGFR - 1 or VEGFR - 2 , decoy receptors for VEGF and tyrosine kinase inhibitors of VEGFRs , are summarized .
However , after they formed tumors in nude mice , every clone acquired high metastatic ability and the gene amplification increased , with elevated mRNA expression .
Its Hsp90 inhibition results in multiple anti - tumor - specific effects , such as degradation of Hsp90 - client proteins involved in cell growth , survival , and specific transformation , inhibition of cancer cell growth , delay of cell cycle progression , induction of morphological and functional changes , and apoptosis .
Several possible explanations for the relationship of these changes to the enhancement of DMBA carcinogenesis include : radiation blocking normal capillary proliferative and / or dilatory responses to inflammation secondary to neoplastic changes ; radiation - induced focal increases in the pericapillary connective tissue histohematic barrier , stimulating angiogenesis but reducing nutrient diffusion ; radiation exposures sensitizing vascular endothelium to subsequent angiogenic stimulation from premalignant tissues ; DMBA vascular and epithelial effects partially or completely blocking radiation effects on epithelial and / or endothelial cells ; and radiation damage to vessel walls partially or fully inhibiting normal physiologic mechanisms of repairing DMBA damage to the vessels .
Early administration of prednisolone ( day 3 , low and high dose ) resulted in the recultivation of significantly more C . albicans .
A characteristic of malignant cells is their capacity to invade their surrounding and to metastasize to distant organs .
Importantly , PTHrP - specific neutralizing antibodies slowed the progression and metastasis of human breast cancer xenografts .
[ Altered expression of PTEN gene and LOH of its epigenetic microsatellite in gastric carcinoma ] .
Targeting wide - range oncogenic transformation via PU24FCl , a specific inhibitor of tumor Hsp90 .
In conclusion , aspirin and nimesulide could inhibit cell proliferation and induce apoptosis in esophageal squamous carcinoma cells .
The nm23 - H1 gene product has been considered as an anti - metastatic protein and the level of its expression has been reported to correlate inversely with metastatic potential in some cancers .
Serum VEGF levels were higher in patients with PDR than in those without DR ( 219 + / - 99 vs . 139 + / - 98 pg / ml , p less than 0 . 001 ) ; however , patients with poor and good CCC had similar VEGF levels .
Due to space limitations , we can not review the molecular control of CNS angiogenesis , but refer the reader to other chapters in this book and to recent publications on the assembly of the vasculature ( 1 , 2 ) .
Enhanced expression of vascular endothelial growth factor by periodontal pathogens in gingival fibroblasts .
As shown previously , ectopic expression of Runx2 in the thymus leads to a preneoplastic state defined by an accumulation of cells with an immature phenotype and a low proliferative rate .
On day 18 , half of each group was treated with 5 x 10 ( 4 ) U gammaIFN , or saline intraperitoneally for 3 d .
Microvessel density ( MVD ) was assessed in order to evaluate angiogenesis of autogenous bone grafts .
The aim of this study was to ascertain the potential usefulness of the antiangiogenic compound linomide for treatment of von Hippel - Lindau ( VHL ) - related tumors .
Mice primed with dimethyl - benz [ a ] anthracene ( DMBA ) were topically exposed to Cum - OOH ( 82 . 6 micromol ) or the positive control , 12 - O - tetradecanoylphorbol - 13 - acetate ( TPA , 17 nmol ) , twice weekly for 29 weeks .
In conclusion , sorafenib administration induced autophagosome formation and enhanced autophagic activity , which conferred a survival advantage to hepatoma cells .
Here , we investigate the role of TSP - 1 in tumor - stroma reaction , which is mainly characterized by fibroblast activation to create a permissive microenvironment for tumor progression .
Here we targeted M2 - PK by synthetic peptide aptamers , which specifically bind to M2 - PK and shift the isoenzyme into its low affinity dimeric conformation .
[ Photodynamic therapy in severe chronic central serous chorioretinopaty ]
These studies have led to a hypothesis that the supplemental intake of these vitamins may reduce the risk of cancer .
These results highlight the importance of selenoperoxidase action in the glutathione cycle as a means by which tumor cells cope with hydroperoxide stress .
These data suggest that inhibition of B16F10 melanoma metastasis by rk - 2 was caused by inhibition of neovascularization and reduction of matrix metalloproteinase expression .
High levels of allele loss also were detected for chromosomes 8q ( 4 of 9 ; 44 % ) and 16p ( 5 of 6 ; 83 % ) and may indicate the presence of additional cellular genes whose functional loss is important in the development of HCCs .
Increased MP activity has been correlated with the metastatic potential of many cancers , including breast cancer .
These data suggest that angiogenesis in operable non - small cell lung cancer is a major prognostic factor for survival and , among the parameters tested , is the only factor related to cancer cell migration to lymph nodes .
Liposomal honokiol inhibits VEGF - D - induced lymphangiogenesis and metastasis in xenograft tumor model .
Further analysis revealed that M - CSF induced VEGF through the MAPK / ERK signaling pathway via the transcription factor , Sp1 .
On the other hand , VEGF levels were not increased by LPS stimulation .
In most cases treatment was associated with decreased vascular leakage , stabilization , or improved vision .
These findings indicate that vGPCR may play a key role in Kaposi ' s sarcoma progression and provide experimental justification for developing molecular - based therapies specifically targeting vGPCR and its effectors for the treatment of Kaposi ' s sarcoma patients .
By using immunohistochemistry , Western blot , and real - time PCR the expression patterns of TSP - 1 , TSP - 2 , CD36 , CD47 , MMP - 2 , and MMP - 9 were investigated in normal rat prostate tissue and five malignant Dunning sublines tissue .
Moreover , in advanced TNM stages , cases without metastasis had higher KISS1 gene expression compared to those with lymph node metastasis ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
Brain pericytes in culture had higher levels of endosialin / TEM 1 than TEMs - 2 , - 3 , - 4 , - 5 , - 7 , and - 8 .
Mild mutations in BRCA2 ( FANCD1 ) cause Fanconi anemia ( FA ) when homozygous , while severe mutations cause common cancers including breast , ovarian , and prostate cancers when heterozygous .
DNA damage induces a novel p53 - survivin signaling pathway regulating cell cycle and apoptosis in acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells .
LMP1 of Epstein - Barr virus induces proliferation of primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts and cooperatively transforms the cells with a p16 - insensitive CDK4 oncogene .
The higher mortality rate in the folate - deficient group compared with the other two groups ( 25 % versus 6 . 5 % and 5 . 6 % , P < 0 . 02 ) partially accounted for the low incidence of high - grade lesions in this group .
Apparently , several in vivo phosphorylation sites were recognized in vitro in both large T - antigen and p53 , but the presence of some artifactual sites could not be completely excluded .
Inhibition of PDGF - stimulated and matrix - mediated proliferation of human vascular smooth muscle cells by SPARC is independent of changes in cell shape or cyclin - dependent kinase inhibitors .
Pre - treatment with rapamycin inhibited activation of mTOR signalling and significantly enhanced the sensitivity of CaSki cells to paclitaxel by increasing apoptotic cell death .
Endothelial cell expression of c - src was constitutively elevated after stable infection with a retroviral vector containing the c - src coding sequence .
These results suggest that CSC contribute to tumor angiogenesis by promoting both local endothelial cell activity and systemic angiogenic processes involving bone marrow - derived EPC in a vascular endothelial growth factor - dependent and stromal - derived factor 1 - dependent manner .
To directly address whether pericyte dysfunction increases the metastatic potential of solid tumors , we studied beta cell tumorigenesis in primary pericyte - deficient Pdgfb ( ret / ret ) mice .
Growth of both histologic types of gene - modified tumor cells in severe combined immunodeficiency ( SCID ) mice was significantly restricted when compared with controls .
Intriguingly , metabolic stress triggers primarily an adaptive ( rather than pro - apoptotic ) p53 response , and p53 is emerging as an important regulator of metabolic homeostasis .
Microenvironments have been highly implicated in the malignancy of mammary tumors .
In addition , the microtubule - destabilizing agents cause prominent changes in endothelial cell morphology , an action associated with rapid vascular collapse in vivo .
PTTG - induced galectin - 1 transactivation and expression were mediated by c - Myc , and both inductions were suppressed by c - Myc RNAi cotranfection .
It is also clear that diffusible angiogenic stimuli can be released not only from most solid tumors , but also from at least three non - neoplastic cells .
Very low - dose irradiation ( 2 x 2 Gy ) is a new , effective , and safe local treatment for follicular lymphoma .
Several factors contribute to the start of intimal thickening .
Together , these in vitro and in vivo studies are consistent with the concept that Ad vectors may provide a useful strategy for efficient local delivery of VEGF165 in the treatment of ischemic diseases .
Recent advances have fostered a more detailed understanding of molecular mechanisms and networks governing EMT in tumor progression .
Large lesions with relatively good visual acuity ( 20 / 50 or better ) may be at particular risk for marked vision loss following verteporfin administration .
This is particularly true for inflammatory bowel diseases ( IBD ) , such as ulcerative colitis and Crohn ' s disease , which show a major increased risk for colorectal cancer .
These properties make such agents potentially useful as adjunctive therapy in haemophilia .
The host and tumor sensitivities to insulin are critical for such treatments , which aim to improve patient nutrition .
Among 18 BCR - ABL + leukemias presenting acquired trisomy of chromosome 21 , we report a high frequency ( 33 % ) of recurrent point mutations ( 4 in myeloid blast crisis [ BC ] CML and one in chronic phase CML ) within the DNA - binding region of RUNX1 .
The excessive production of ROS can damage protein , lipids , nucleic acids , and matrix components .
We concluded that RAF265 is highly efficacious in this xenograft model of human melanoma and decreases glucose metabolism as measured by DNA microarray analysis , cell culture assays , and small animal FDG PET scans as early as 1 day after treatment .
The vessels are derived from quiescient vessels within the fat .
Multivariate analysis showed that this profile was independently the most significant prognostic factor ( P = 0 . 001 ) .
In conclusion , this study identifies new functional properties for CD154 , which are potentially relevant for the growth and dissemination of renal carcinoma cells .
Expression of epidermal growth factor receptor , transforming growth factor - alpha and Ki - 67 in relationship to malignant transformation of pleomorphic adenoma .
The purpose of this study was to determine whether upregulation of PTEN gene by transfection wild - type PTEN gene to ovarian cancer cells can inhibit growth and migration and to explore the potential for PTEN gene therapy of ovarian cancers .
We conducted a retrospective medical record review of patients treated with rofecoxib for acute haemarthrosis , chronic synovitis , target joint or pain .
AIM : To determine the expression of HER2 and bradykinin B ( 1 ) receptors ( B ( 1 ) R ) in the two pathogenic models of gallbladder cancer : the metaplasia - dysplasia - carcinoma and the adenoma - carcinoma pathways .
When the two groups were compared with respect to poor and good CCC , poor CCC was higher in patients with PDR ( 64 vs . 36 % , respectively , p = 0 . 01 ) .
Although DU145 prostate cancer cells are resistant to exogenously applied Fas agonist CH - 11 ( anti - Fas monoclonal antibody ) , Fas - resistance can be overcome using a FasL expressing adenovirus ( AdGFPFasL ( TET ) ) [ Hyer et al . , Molecular Therapy , 2000 ; 2 : 348 - 58 ( ref . 12 ) ] .
The issue is complicated because both disorders have a propensity for MDS or AML as part of their natural history .
Heating and protease treatment of the stimulants reduced the VEGF enhancing levels in Ve and OMP in vitro .
Curcumin , which is a widely used dietary pigment and spice , has been demonstrated to be an effective inhibitor of tumor promotion in mouse skin carcinogenesis .
The results suggest that in this strain , the malate - citrate shuttle is not an effective pathway for transferring glycolytic reducing equivalents from cytosol to mitochondria .
None of the tumors or the healthy breast in the tissues studied expressed Glut - 3 or Glut - 5 .
Indeed , these agents are known to activate different pathways of apoptosis .
Here , we show that the N - acetyltransferase arrest - defect 1 protein ( ARD1 ) functions as a unique AR regulator in PCa cells .
The integration of vascular grading in clinical trials on adjuvant chemotherapy and / or radiotherapy could substantially contribute in defining groups of operable patients who might benefit from cytotoxic treatment .
One possibility is that the gross chromosomal alterations frequently observed in HCC DNA at the site of HBV integration may alter the expression of important nearby cellular genes .
Myocardial ischemia both acute and chronic has been clearly shown to stimulate angiogenesis in many experimental models .
[ Expression of metastasis suppressor gene nm23 in human hepatocellular carcinoma ] .
The difference in metastatic potential correlated with the endogenous production levels of lymphangiogenic growth factor VEGF - C and the presence of tumor lymphatics .
CONCLUSION : Not only tumor cells but also TAMs secrete the VEGF - C in OSCC , and TAMs may play a major role in peritumoral lymphatic neoangiogenesis and lymphatic metastasis .
The mechanism of caffeine seems to involve the inhibition of the extracellular signal - regulated kinase 1 / 2 ( ERK1 / 2 ) , p38 , and Akt , leading to a marked decrease in adenosine - induced HIF - 1alpha accumulation , VEGF transcriptional activation , and VEGF and IL - 8 protein accumulation .
Heparin immobilized porous PLGA microspheres for angiogenic growth factor delivery .
However , whether hemostatic factors contribute directly or indirectly to the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis remains uncertain .
The transplantation of old donor - derived MSCs attenuated apoptosis of cardiomyocytes in the peri - infarct region compared with the control group and the effect was elevated in young donor - derived MSCs ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
Recombinants that lacked miR - BHRF1 - 2 or miR - BHRF1 - 3 displayed enhanced EBNA expression initiated at the Cp and Wp promoters .
CONCLUSION : These results demonstrated that PTEN had played an important role in the cell proliferation , cell migration and invasion dependent on its phosphatase activity .
The 5 - year survival rate in cases with higher KISS1 protein expression was significantly higher than in those with low expression ( 20 . 9 vs . 2 . 4 % , p < 0 . 01 ) .
Agents that inhibit Hsp90 function hold significant promise in cancer therapy .
By use of electric mobility shift assays , we demonstrate that alpha - MSH ( 10 ( - 6 ) to 10 ( - 14 ) M ) activates AP - 1 in human dermal fibroblasts , whereas coincubation with interleukin - 1 beta ( IL - 1 beta ) results in suppression of its activation .
Risk of myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia in congenital neutropenias .
Cell - matrix adhesion assay showed that the adhesive ability of CNE1 - GL with the matrix ( mean A value : 1 . 2508 + / - 0 . 0711 ) was higher than that of CNE1 cell ( mean A value : 0 . 9519 + / - 0 . 068 ) ( P < 0 . 001 ) .
Activating mutations of the TSH - R gene have been detected in a group of differentiated carcinomas with high basal adenylyl cyclase activity , and in a few cases of hyperfunctioning thyroid carcinoma .
Through this domain , Evi - 1 physically interacts with Smad3 , an intracellular mediator of TGF - beta signaling , thereby suppressing the transcriptional activity of Smad3 .
hADA3 binds selectively to the high - risk HPV E6 proteins and only to immortalization - competent E6 mutants .
This organ is derived from an upwards growth of the primitive oropharynx , a K5 - expressing tissue .
An alternative and rather obvious strategy to treat ischemia is to activate endogenous angiogenic or arteriogenic pathways to stimulate revascularization of the tissue .
Using human neuroblastoma cell line , SK - N - MC , we found that treatment of these cells with FGF - 2 resulted in early induction of both Id - 1 mRNA and protein .
These activities provide an explanation for the angiogenic properties of EGF in vivo .
The cellular tumour antigen p53 is found at elevated levels in a wide variety of transformed cells ( for reviews see refs 1 , 2 ) .
It has been suggested that the immortalized phenotype is mediated by an extra cellular factor .
Bovine capillary endothelial cells are also stimulated to actively migrate when exposed to EGF in vitro .
PEDF is an important negative regulator of angiogenic activity of aqueous humor .
This resulted in a substantial increase in P185neu expression , which led to the formation of progressively growing carcinomas after such cells were inoculated into athymic nude mice .
There was a significant correlation between eye appraisal and Chalkley counting ( P less than 0 . 0001 ) .
The expression of endostatin in situ and its maintaining time were detected by immunohistochemistry and Western Blot , respectively .
Inhibition of NF - kappaB significantly reduced transcript levels and autocrine production of BMP - 2 by rhTNF - alpha stimulated C4 - 2B cells and to a lesser extent by the parental LNCaP cells .
On the 8th day of serum - free culturing , only the higher molecular weight protein - band of about 45 kDa was clearly induced and accumulated in detached cells and apoptotic bodies in which PARP was activated .
The various complex interactions of TP give it an essential role in cellular functioning and , hence , it is an ideal target in cancer therapy .
RESULTS : Aflibercept was shown to have early clinical activity .
Thus , supplementation with L - Carnitine as an adjuvant therapy may be promising in alleviating the systemic side - effects of chemotherapeutics .
CONCLUSION : This angiogenesis assay based on human fat tissue uses three - dimensionally intact human tissue .
The antiapoptotic effect of FVIIa was confirmed by the observation that FVIIa attenuated caspase 3 activation .
Prostaglandin E2 production was measured by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay .
However , it is not sufficient for the immortalization of MEF , and MEF - LMP1 ( TRADD ) cells eventually enter growth arrest .
METHODS : NF - kappaB inhibition was achieved by IkappaBalpha super - repressor adenoviral vector and activation was monitored by EMSA and reporter assays .
All four metastatic hybrids expressed 60 - 72 kDa gelatinase activity , while three of them also had 92 kDa activity and one had only minimal 92 kDa activity .
The median overall survival was 27 weeks .
This usually involves screening of potential anti - angiogenic compounds on endothelial cells .
Here we demonstrate that bone marrow - derived haematopoietic progenitor cells that express vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 1 ( VEGFR1 ; also known as Flt1 ) home to tumour - specific pre - metastatic sites and form cellular clusters before the arrival of tumour cells .
Development of obesity is associated with extensive modifications in adipose tissue involving adipogenesis , angiogenesis and extracellular matrix proteolysis .
Thalidomide had no direct effect on endothelial cells .
The p53 and VEGF staining statuses were coincident in only 21 % of the tumors , and no significant correlation was found between p53 and VEGF statuses .
Restoration occurred in the presence of a protein synthesis inhibitor but not after a transcriptional block , indicating that c - myc is a direct , transcriptionally regulated target of c - Myb .
Activation of MybER both prevented the growth arrest induced by interleukin - 6 ( IL - 6 ) and rapidly restored c - myc expression in nearly terminal differentiated cells that had been exposed to IL - 6 for 3 days .
Adaptor protein Crk is required for ephrin - B1 - induced membrane ruffling and focal complex assembly of human aortic endothelial cells .
Invasion of adjacent organs was more frequent in the RSCM group than in the RSCB group and the Ki - 67 labeling index of the tumors was significantly higher in the former group .
As SET has been previously reported to be an inhibitor of phosphatase PP2A , the nuclear phosphatase activity was monitored in cells expressing activated Galpha ( 12 ) .
Following cotransfection of p53 - null EU - 4 cells with survivin promoter - luciferase constructs and either wt - p53 or different mut - p53 expression vectors , wt - p53 inhibited survivin promoter activity ; p53 - mediated inhibition could be abrogated by overexpression of murine double minute2 ( MDM2 ) protein .
None of the transformants differentiated into melanophores or iridophores or other neural crest derivatives as seen in goldfish erythrophoroma cells .
The effect of swainsonine ( active compound of locoweed and a potential anticancer drug ) on vascular development showed no differences in sinusoidal diameters at 7 weeks , but a decrease in capillary density was noted .
There is evidence for the implication of ARF in angiogenesis .
The data suggest that various metastasis profiles exist .
Targeting a tumor - specific laminin domain critical for human carcinogenesis .
Prolonged culture led to the implantation of cancer cells into the monolayer of the F - 2 cells , which was mediated mainly by alpha ( 3 ) beta ( 1 ) - integrin .
The body has three equally important interactive immune defense systems , all of which are profoundly disrupted with major burn injury .
The tissue response to this biologic mesh is discussed in the context of recent reports on clinical hernia repair .
Addition of exogenous PAI - 1 , however , prevented HT1080 cell adhesion ( IC50 180 nM ) and promoted cell detachment from vitronectin .
METHODS : Tumor biopsy specimens and serum were obtained from 37 neuroblastoma patients ; adrenal biopsy sections and sera of 7 normal children served as controls .
Taken together , these data suggest that signal - controlled activation of SRF , MRTF - A , and CBP provides a novel connection between mechanical stimuli and angiogenic gene expression .
Glycolysis and glutaminolysis in perifused Ehrlich ascites tumour cells .
Concentrations achieved in vivo in tumors lead to single - agent anti - tumor activity at non - toxic doses .
P18 increased the production of CD95 ligand and reduced the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 by the endothelial cells in vivo .
Meclofenamate and indomethacin were tested in an attempt to confirm recent reports of anti - edema activity in non steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAID ' s ) .
When tumor cells possessed a high level of UK , laminin and type IV collagen , components of the basement membrane , disappeared from tumor tissues .
It was shown that large T - antigen showed associated kinase activity , although none of our results could unambiguously demonstrate an intrinsic kinase activity of this protein .
Expression of KISS1 and MMP - 9 in non - small cell lung cancer and their relations to metastasis and survival .
The latter in its parent form or in its sugar form , deoxyribose ( dR ) may play a role in the induction of angiogenesis .
The data provide an example of coordinated changes in the expression of two cell adhesion molecules , syndecan - 1 and E - cadherin during epithelial cell transformation .
OBJECTIVE : To document that a polyclonal antiserum to calretinin , a 29 - kd calcium - binding protein , consistently decorates normal and tumor mesothelial cells in cytologic preparations .
Six of the 8 patients whose disease progressed have died .
Thrombin decreases the ability of endothelial cells to attach to basement membrane proteins .
Survivin partially antagonized the growth suppressive function of N - myc in SH - EP neuroblastoma cells during serum deprivation whereas FLIP ( L ) did not .
Median change in visual acuity both 6 and 12 months after the initial PDT was 0 lines ( n = 18 at 6 months , range - 14 to + 8 lines ; n = 17 at 12 months , range - 18 to + 7 lines ) .
In fact , p75 ( NTR ) depresses the VEGF - A / Akt / eNOS / NO pathway and additionally reduces the mRNA levels of ITGB1 [ beta ( 1 ) integrin ] , BIRC5 ( survivin ) , PTTG1 ( securin ) and VEZF1 .
Levels of uPA , urokinase - plasminogen activator receptor ( uPAR ) and plasminogen activator inhibitor - 1 ( PAI - 1 ) were measured semiquantitatively in paraffin sections of tumours from 147 patients with NSCLC .
Ras - association domain family 1C protein promotes breast cancer cell migration and attenuates apoptosis .
Although both hypomorphic heterozygotes developed intestinal polyps , tumor multiplicities were much lower than that in Apc ( Delta716 ) mice , heterozygotes of an Apc null allele .
When stably over - expressed in maximal transformed SV - 52 cells , CK1delta mutants induced reversion to a minimal transformed phenotype by dominant - negative interference with endogenous wtCK1delta .
Although Evi - 1 is thought to promote growth or block differentiation in some cell types , its biological functions have not been elucidated .
The fibrinolytic ( plasminogen / plasmin ) and matrix metalloproteinase ( MMP ) systems cooperate in these processes .
Finally , DNase I footprint analysis with a segment of the promoter containing these elements reveals the binding of several nuclear proteins .
Using MDA - MB - 231 cells , in which FOXO3a activity can be induced by 4 - hydroxytamoxifen , we showed that FOXO3a induction up - regulates PI3K - Akt activity and enhanced doxorubicin resistance .
Serum IL - 6 levels correlate with tumor stage , and survival of patients .
Immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated that Fas associated with c - erbB2 and c - met in untreated cells .
Notably , the activation of BMPRII by BMP - 2 is required for modulation of Smad activation by NF - kappaB in PC cells .
Therefore , we have identified a novel role for PSMA as a true molecular interface , integrating both extracellular and intracellular signals during angiogenesis .
Addition of c - erbB2 to a multivariate Cox model that contained menopausal status , tumor size , nuclear grade , and treatment as covariates did not affect the significance of the model for DSF or OAS , whereas addition of the first - order interaction between c - erbB2 and tamoxifen was statistically significant both for DFS and OAS .
However , recent observations suggest more caution in accepting such a hypothesis .
METHODS : We analyzed the hypermethylation status and expression of the gene and 12q13 . 1 loss of heterozygosity in 31 PCNSLs .
Assuming discrimination thresholds between high - grade and low - grade tumours of 0 . 8 for 18F - FDG uptake and 1 . 8 for 123I - IMT uptake , the accuracy values of 18F - FDG PET and 123I - IMT SPET for differentiating between high - grade and low - grade tumours were 21 / 23 ( 91 % ) and 19 / 23 ( 83 % ) , respectively .
Lewis lung carcinoma .
Efficacy was demonstrated particularly for chronic synovitis and pain and no serious adverse events occurred .
METHODS : The expression of DCC and netrin - 1 in normal endometrial glands and in cancer cell lines was examined by RT - PCR and immunohistochemistry .
We have described striking increases in VEGF protein in both neurons and glia after pilocarpine - induced status epilepticus in the brain .
If generalizable to additional cell lines and human disease , this observation may partially explain the adverse prognosis associated with thrombocytosis in ovarian cancer .
The increase in tumorigenicity and metastatic ability could be explained by the increase in Mr 72 , 000 type IV collagenase activity and angiogenesis attributed to the induction of IL - 8 after irradiation .
After 24 h treatment with 80 microM magnolol in serum - containing medium , about 50 % of the cells exhibited apoptotic features and 20 % necrotic features .
Our study indicates that 1 ) Ca2 + entry in pulmonary endothelial cells through SOCs produces cell shape change that is dependent on site - specific rearrangement of the microfilamentous cytoskeleton and 2 ) Trp1 may be a component of pulmonary endothelial SOCs .
CONCLUSIONS : Rab5a and Rab7a regulate VEGFR2 trafficking toward early and late endosomes .
VEGF protein was higher in alinidine - treated rats than in controls after 2 weeks and increased further after 3 weeks of treatment .
The adenovirus type 5 55 - kDa E1B protein ( E1B - 55kDa ) cooperates with E1A gene products to induce cell transformation .
Angiogenesis is induced by soluble factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) released from tumor cells in hypoxia .
Furthermore , Cox regression analysis showed that CYR61 and CTGF expression had a significant correlation with patient survival .
Using a combination of two dimensional electrophoresis ( 2 - DE ) and MALDI - TOF mass spectrometry , a total of 125 proteins and their post - translational modification forms or isoforms were found to be differentially expressed in the cell lines .
Using a retroviral gene transfer approach , we found that constitutive activation of MEK5 / ERK5 signaling strongly inhibits EC migration and results in massive morphological changes .
We conclude that stimulation of a putative growth factor signal pathway , associated with ras - induced proliferation , transiently suppresses the induction of transcription factors functionally involved in cell growth and differentiation .
PURPOSE : Pigment epithelial - derived factor ( PEDF ) is a potent angiogenesis inhibitor with multiple other functions , some of which enhance tumor growth .
The truncated fos protein that contains only part of the central region is not phosphorylated in chicken embryo fibroblasts , indicating that phosphorylation of the fos protein is not necessary for the transforming activity .
FM - MSC and BM - MSC both expressed major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) class I but not MHC class II antigens and did not elicit allogeneic lymphocyte proliferation in mixed lymphocyte culture .
The similarity between RhoA effects and thyroid transformation by Ras suggests that RhoA may act as a downstream effector of Ras ; in fact , the dominant negative RhoA N19 abolished the down - regulatory effect of Ras V12 over the Tg promoter .
Tumors of H4 cells were well perfused , unlike tumors of H5 cells which were highly necrotic .
By live videomicroscopy , we confirmed that the vessels were largely nonfunctional in the absence of alpha2beta1 integrin .
The ability to positively and negatively regulate many of these pathways , combined with feedback signalling from these pathways to p53 , demonstrates the reciprocal and flexible nature of the regulation , facilitating a diverse range of responses to metabolic stress .
The capillary density in group 1 ( ischemia + L - NIL ) was significantly different from group 2 ( ischemia + saline ) ; group 1 : 360 . 33 + / - 77 . 02 , group 2 : 549 + / - 81 . 85 / mm2 , p < 0 . 05 ) . In addition , expression of HIF1alpha was significantly increased in ischemic groups ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
Of the 14 tumors that expressed CD40 , all but 1 ( 93 % ) had either nodal or systemic metastasis at the time of diagnosis .
These data suggested that inhibition of p53 - dependent apoptosis may depend on the transcriptional repression function of the 55 - kDa protein , which appears to be regulated be phosphorylation at the carboxy terminus .
We assessed the effects of these mutations on the ability of the v - fos protein to transform chicken embryo fibroblasts and to stimulate cellular proliferation of chicken neuroretinal cells .
In vivo p53 response and immune reaction underlie highly effective low - dose radiotherapy in follicular lymphoma .
Most of the studies focusing on the mechanisms of p53 activity have been performed in cultured cells upon treatment with well - established p53 - activating inputs , such as high doses of radiations , DNA - damaging drugs and activated oncogenes .
Here we present PU24FCl , a representative of the first class of designed Hsp90 inhibitors .
Immunohistochemically stained sections of tumour were allocated a score for stain intensity and results correlated to : survival ; tumour stage ( T ) ; nodal stage ( N ) ; stage grouping ( I to IIIb ) , survival status and sex .
Angiogenesis inhibitors : current strategies and future prospects .
Furthermore , thrombin increases the secretion of VEGF and enhances the expression and protein synthesis of matrix metalloprotease - 9 and alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) integrin in human prostate cancer PC - 3 cells .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : Human colon carcinoma ( HT29 ) and murine squamous carcinoma ( SCCVII ) clonal cell lines expressing varying levels of VEGF were established and their response to vandetanib was assessed in tissue culture and as solid tumors .
The proliferative response of bovine retinal capillary endothelial cells to EGF is dependent upon attaching the cells to a matrix of fibronectin .
BACKGROUND : M - CSF recruits mononuclear phagocytes which regulate processes such as angiogenesis and metastases in tumors .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : We used rAAV2 / 5 to deliver vasostatin intratumorally or systemically in different mouse lung tumor models - - subcutaneous , orthotopic xenograft , and spontaneous metastasis lung tumor models .
However , the cellular functions of VASP are not known .
Here we studied clusterin expression in PNT1a cells subjected to serum - starvation with the aim of defining clusterin early molecular changes following apoptosis induction .
As predicted , these MEFs upregulated Hif - 1alpha and HIF target genes directly as a result of FH deficiency .
Transgenic mice engineered to express human endosialin bred on an immunocompromised background allowed the growth of human tumor xenografts .
We studied the metabolic changes of endothelial cell activation by growth factors using human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) , [ 1 , 2 - ( 13 ) C ( 2 ) ] - glucose and mass isotopomer distribution analysis .
Disruption of AR - ARD1 interactions may be a potent intervention for androgen - dependent PCa therapy .
METHODS : We assessed antiapoptotic and proapoptotic markers in vascular and perivascular cells in lung biopsy samples from 18 patients with CHD , 7 with reversible and 11 with irreversible PHT , and 6 control patients .
Both groups received either 0 . 5 mg / ml linomide in drinking water or acidified water and were followed until tumor diameter reached 3 cm or for 4 weeks .
Strong positive expression of mEndostatin was seen in the tumor tissue after injection of Ad - mEndostatin , immunhistochemically ostained by mouse endostatin monoclonal antibody , while the control groups showed only very low expression or absence .
Manipulating angiomiRs in the settings of pathological vascularization represents a new therapeutic approach .
The contribution of Harold F . Dvorak to the study of tumor angiogenesis and stroma generation mechanisms .
Two natural models of ovine IUGR are those of hyperthermic exposure during pregnancy , and adolescent overfeeding , also during pregnancy .
The cells on 15 - microm wide strips completely aligned in the direction of the strip , and had significantly lower shape index than those in all other groups .
Adaptive landscapes and emergent phenotypes : why do cancers have high glycolysis ?
It is normally produced in bone , teeth , kidney and epithelial lining tissues and is found in plasma and breast milk .
We have found out that docetaxel - ATRA combination significantly downregulates survivin ( BIRC5 ) , myeloid cell leukemia - 1 ( MCL - 1 ) and lymphotoxin beta - receptor ( LTbetaR ) genes , which all three have pivotal roles in regulation of apoptosis and cell cycle progression .
Plasminogen activator ( PA ) content of excised tumors was determined by SDS - PAGE , and major PA was found to be urokinase ( UK ) type .
Moreover , the downregulation of c - myc oncogene by an antisense strategy might represent a useful goal for improving the efficacy of this anti - neoplastic drug family .
In both cases , regulation of syndecan - 1 occurred post - transcriptionally , since syndecan - 1 mRNA levels remained unchanged .
In addition , when 200 micrograms U - 995 was injected i . p . into mice it suppressed sarcoma - 180 cell growth and B16 - F10 mouse melanoma cell metastasis in vivo .
VEGF is the key player in tumor angiogenesis .
These mice were then treated with ganciclovir to specifically target only the vGPCR - expressing cells .
In this work , we show that an 11 - amino acid peptide derived from the second immunoglobulin - like domain of Flt - 1 functions as an angiogenic inhibitor in chick chorioallantoic membrane and inhibited VEGF - induced vascular permeability in Miles ' assay without binding to VEGF directly .
The aim of this study was to compare the effects of PRP and platelet - poor plasma ( PPP ) on healing of critical - size bone defects . Bilateral full - thickness , critical - size bone defects were created in the parietal bones of 32 rabbits , which had been studied in 4 groups .
Intensive insulin therapy may cause a transient worsening of retinopathy in patients with diabetes through increased retinal VEGF gene expression .
The antiproliferative effect of HAH - cortisol on endothelial cells appeared independent of the glucocorticoid activity of the steroid since HAH conjugated to 5 beta - pregnane - 3 alpha , 17 alpha , 21 - triol - 20 - one , a steroid lacking glucocorticoid or mineralocorticoid activity , was even more effective at inhibiting DNA synthesis by murine pulmonary capillary endothelial cells than was HAH - cortisol .
Pericytes occur in tumour blood vessels and are critical for the development of a functional vascular network .
The structural and functional development of the pulmonary system is dependent upon appropriate early vascularization of the embryonic lung .
F - 2 cells cultured on Matrigel showed evident tube formation , and coculture of F - 2 cells with A431 cells led to the formation of A431 cell nests constantly surrounded by tube - like networks consisting of F - 2 cells .
However , the exact mechanism underlying the cytotoxic effects of pacitaxel , especially in the survival - signalling pathway , is poorly understood .
We determined that lacZ was uniformly expressed in the endothelium of transgenic embryos but was markedly downregulated postnatally .
Collectively , our results suggest the proinflammatory and essential role of IL - 17F to develop spontaneous intestinal tumorigenesis in Apc ( Min / + ) mice in the presence of IL - 17A .
[ Prognostic significance of cellular vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression in the course of chronic myeloid leukaemia ]
Here , we report the cDNA cloning of the corresponding oncogene , designated UFO , in allusion to the as yet unidentified function of its protein .
To understand the mechanisms behind these processes , we have examined the effect of FVIIa on apoptosis .
Additionally , 3 - BrPA treatment significantly impaired lactate production by HepG2 cells , even when glucose was withdrawn from the incubation medium .
In a subset of neuroblastomas , a spontaneous neuronal to neuroendocrine differentiation occurs in areas adjacent to necrotic zones .
9E3 / CEF4 mRNA was expressed in chicken peripheral blood monocytes , and its expression was stimulated by incubation of the monocytes with lipopolysaccharide or phorbol myristic acetate .
Topo I expression was described as the percentage of cells staining positive for topo I , along with the intensity and localization of the staining .
Induction of FOXO3a activity in doxorubicin - sensitive MCF - 7 cells was sufficient to promote Akt phosphorylation and arrest cell proliferation .
The effects of 5T4 expression on morphology and motility are separable since cells transfected with a truncated form of 5T4 cDNA in which the cytoplasmic domain is deleted reveal that the latter is necessary to abrogate actin / cadherin - containing contacts but does not influence the effects on motility .
All the tumors produced grew progressively without showing regression and killed the mice .
Angiotensin II induces soluble fms - Like tyrosine kinase - 1 release via calcineurin signaling pathway in pregnancy .
Furthermore , a significant relationship between the expression of EphA2 and E - cadherin was observed .
Expression of EphA2 and E - cadherin in colorectal cancer : correlation with cancer metastasis .
IL - 18 , originally identified as interferon - gamma inducing factor ( IGIF ) , is related to the IL - 1 family in terms of its structure as well as its processing , receptor , signal transduction pathway and pro - inflammatory properties .
These novel functions of p53 help to align metabolic processes with the proliferation and energy status , to maintain optimal mode of glucose metabolism and to boost the energy efficient mitochondrial respiration in response to ATP deficiency .
To examine the roles of LMP1 in cell proliferation and growth regulation in primary culture cells , we constructed a recombinant retrovirus containing an LMP1 gene .
RESULTS : MCT 1 and 2 were the primary isoforms expressed in human glioblastoma multiforme and glioma - derived cell lines .
These mutations may have functional consequences since they eliminate potential phosphorylation sites and may affect the tertiary structure of mature protein complexes .
Betulin , unlike its chemical derivative betulinic acid , did not directly trigger mitochondrial cytochrome c release in isolated mitochondria .
One of these mechanisms is NF - kappaB pathway activation which in turn may contribute to tumor formation by providing anti - apoptotic survival signals to the epithelial cells .
Intraperitoneal administration of 2G7 resulted in a marked increase in mouse spleen NK cell activity .
We sought to test whether p53 could behave in a manner similar to known genes in a biological test system , and we demonstrate here that p53 can cooperate with the activated Ha - ras oncogene to transform normal embryonic cells .
This protein is produced in large amounts by fibroblasts cultivated in vitro .
The differential regulation of human telomerase reverse transcriptase and vascular endothelial growth factor may contribute to the clinically more aggressive behavior of p63 - positive breast carcinomas .
A role for NF - kappaB in cancer cells appears to involve regulation of cell proliferation , control of apoptosis , promotion of angiogenesis , and stimulation of invasion / metastasis .
It is a safe mode of therapy , but further studies are required to establish its efficacy and to ascertain which diabetic patients and wounds will benefit the most from it .
Proto - oncogene N - myc promoter is down regulated by the Wilms ' tumor suppressor gene WT1 .
Here we show that GR activation leads to both the rapid induction of MAPK phosphatase - 1 ( MKP - 1 ) mRNA and its sustained expression .
It was also shown by our studies that apoptosis was induced in DU - 145 prostate carcinoma cells with significant cytotoxicity , no matter which agent applied first .
Experimental results and theoretical calculations suggest that in glucose - containing medium the Na + transport increases from 0 . 75 to 1 . 78 pmol / hour per cell .
Patients with low or absence expressing SPARC had significantly worse overall survival and disease - free survival in a Single Factor Analysis ; Cox Regression Analysis , SPARC emerged as an overall survival and disease - free survival independent prognostic factor for colon cancer .
Murine leukemia L1210 cells rendered deficient in glutathione peroxidase ( GPX ) and phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase ( PHGPX ) by Se deprivation ( L . Se ( - ) cells ) were found to be more sensitive to tert - butyl hydroperoxide ( t - BuOOH ) cytotoxicity than Se - replete controls ( L . Se ( + ) cells ) .
CONCLUSIONS : Survivin functions as a novel upstream regulator of mitochondrial - dependent apoptosis , and molecular targeting of this pathway results in anticancer activity via a dual mechanism of induction of tumor cell apoptosis and suppression of angiogenesis .
Expression of the cytolytic effectors perforin , granzyme B9 , and the granule membrane protein TIA1 were examined in 24 putative NK - cell lymphomas , 18 postthymic T - cell lymphomas ( one case CD8 + CD56 + and three anaplastic large cell lymphomas ( ALCL ) , three T - lymphoblastic lymphomas , and 20 B - cell lymphomas .
In addition to well established functions to block cell proliferation , recent studies have revealed a role for p53 in the regulation of pathways involved in glucose metabolism .
The EGF receptor gene is amplified and over - expressed in several human tumors , suggesting that increased concentrations of the proto - oncogene leads to constitutive activity similar to that seen with oncogene erb B .
Together these results indicated that the revertant phenotype did not result from altered expression or mutations in the c - jun gene .
However , the frequency of the p . Val600Lys mutation was higher than in most other studies and comprised almost one - third of all BRAF mutations in our cohort ( 27 / 89 , 30 % ) .
The permeability of plasma membranes for K + increases 2 . 75 fold , while the passive flux of Na + diminishes .
BAG - 1L also potentiated transactivation of known vitamin - D - responsive gene promoters , osteocalcin and 24 - hydroxylase , and enhanced VDR - dependent transcription and protein expression of the keratinocyte differentiation marker , involucrin .
Multikinase inhibitor sorafenib inhibits proliferation and angiogenesis of tumors by suppressing the Raf / MEK / ERK signaling pathway and VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase .
Clinicopathologic data ( sex , age , Dukes ' stage , differentiation grade , survival status ) , p53 status , and PCNA status were statistically analyzed for association with topo I protein expression .
CONCLUSION : BRAF p . Val600Lys mutations were present at a relatively high frequency in this cohort of metastatic melanoma patients ( 27 / 183 , 15 % ) .
Here , we demonstrate that aglycon of rhizochalin ( AglRhz ) from the Rhizochalina incrustata induces AMP - activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) phosphorylation , and thereby inhibits mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) - p70S6 kinase - extracellular signal - regulated kinase ( ERK ) signaling and activator protein 1 ( AP - 1 ) activity via phosphorylation of Raptor in HT - 29 cells .
The combination of paclitaxel and 317615 x 2HCl resulted in 100 % 120 - day survival of SKOV - 3 bearing animals .
VEGF is upregulated after hypoxic injury to the brain , which can occur during cerebral ischemia or high - altitude edema , and has been implicated in the blood - brain barrier breakdown associated with these conditions .
Transfection of full - length 5T4 cDNA into epithelial cells alters cell - cell contacts and cellular motility .
In concordance with its higher affinity for tumor Hsp90 , in vivo PU24FCl accumulates in tumors while being rapidly cleared from normal tissue .
Consequently , cells were more rigid and show reduced motility .
We report a novel strategy to engineer and express stable and soluble human recombinant polyvalent / polyspecific fusion proteins .
( c ) 2010 American Cancer Society .
We now report that six different genes of the cluster HOX 1 are sequentially induced by RA in a similar temporal pattern , beginning with genes at the 3 ' end of the cluster .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the effect of osteopontin silencing on the invasion and apoptosis of U251 cells .
These data highlight the importance of a balanced proteolysis and suggest an additional role for PAI - 1 distinct from its role in proteolysis .
Syndecan - 1 is a cell surface proteoglycan that has been implicated in a number of cellular functions including cell - cell adhesion , cell - matrix anchorage and growth factor presentation for signalling receptors .
The difference in diagnostic performance was not significant on receiver operating characteristic analysis ( P > 0 . 4 ) .
Rapid endothelial cell migration and inhibition of thrombosis are critical for the resolution of denudation injuries to the vessel wall .
Angiotensin II ( Ang II ) is a potent vasoconstrictor that increases concomitant with sFlt - 1 during pregnancy .
Our earlier studies showed that DATS induced apoptosis in human colon cancer HT29 and colo 205 cell lines in vitro .
Predictive markers for anti - VEGF agents have not yet been identified and questions regarding the usefulness of bevacizumab in the adjuvant setting as well as its continued use beyond progression remain unanswered , in spite of negative data on bevacizumab in treating patients with adjuvant colon cancer .
5 - Azacytidine , a potent DNA methylation inhibitor , induced growth of large colonies in soft agar cultures of Rat 6 or Rat 6 / c - myc cells .
CONCLUSION : Our observations suggest that DCC / netrin - 1 signaling may commit cells to the transition of endometrial gland architecture or function from a proliferating to a secretory phase .
Forty male golden hamsters were divided into four equal groups .
The mean BCVA increased from 20 / 76 to 20 / 64 .
In this study , we investigated the effects of spironolactone on the prevention of corneal allograft rejection in a MHC class I / II mismatch rat corneal transplant model .
In addition , PPARgamma protein was not detected in all of the eight carcinomas in which COX - 2 protein was detected , suggesting that expression of PPARgamma and COX - 2 was in a reciprocal relationship .
Furthermore , in support of these findings , we found that sunitinib induced a reduction in the expression of the antiapoptotic molecule Bcl - 2 as well as dephosphorylation of the proapoptotic molecule BAD , which results in the activation of BAD in these cells .
PURPOSE : Spironolactone has recently been shown to have suppressive effects on several immunoactive and proinflammatory cytokines .
Epithelial keratitis , disciform edema , and necrotizing keratitis with neovascularization of the cornea developed in control animals .
Mean tumour volume was significantly lower in the DMBA - vitamin E group compared to the tumour control group .
In the present study the effects of the 48 - hour administration of granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor ( GM - CSF ) ( 100 U / mL ) or interleukin - 3 ( IL - 3 ) ( 100 U / mL ) on the proliferative activity of leukemic cells and on the intracellular metabolism and cytotoxic efficacy of a subsequent 12 - hour application of cytosine arabinoside ( ara - C ) at doses of 0 . 1 , 1 . 0 , 10 . 0 , and 100 . 0 mumol / L were evaluated on bone marrow cells from 17 patients with acute myeloid leukemia .
First clinical control with second angiography was performed 6 weeks after irradiation , then in 3 - month intervals .
Antivascular actions of microtubule - binding drugs .
Tumors are tissue - specific diseases , and their mechanisms of invasion and metastasis are highly diverse .
Mitochondrial complex II , or succinate dehydrogenase , is a key enzymatic complex involved in both the tricarboxylic acid ( TCA ) cycle and oxidative phosphorylation as part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain .
We have reported important benefits and survival with an immunotherapy schedule in patients with endocrine - dependent breast cancer and distant metastases .
Tumour - specific distribution of BRCA1 promoter region methylation supports a pathogenetic role in breast and ovarian cancer .
Thus , in 5T4 - transfected CL - S1 murine mammary cells , 5T4 expression is associated with dendritic morphology , accompanied by abrogation of actin / cadherin - containing contacts and increased motility .
RESULTS : VEGF - C expression was higher in lymphatic metastasis group ( PI = 12 . 169 + / - 2 . 778 ) than in no - metastasis group ( PI = 8 . 498 + / - 2 . 674 , P < 0 . 05 ) .
CXCR4 transcripts and proteins were detectable in all five gastric cancer cell lines .
Therapeutic angiogenesis is the biological agents or bioactive material to stimulate the growth of new blood vessels .
To determine if hypoxic activation of these stress activated protein kinases regulated HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression , we assayed JNK1 and p38 activity in squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) lines grown under normoxic or hypoxic conditions .
In the present study , we investigated the antiangiogenic mechanism of 3 , 6 - di ( 2 , 3 - epoxypropoxy ) xanthone ( EPOX ) , a novel Mcl - 1 targeting drug .
Our results suggest that this small peptide functions as an angiogenic inhibitor by inhibiting VEGF function through a non - VEGF binding mechanism .
Using tissue - specific ablation in mice , we deleted the BR - SMADs from somatic cells of ovaries and testes .
Immunohistochemical staining for thyroid transcription factor - 1 : a helpful aid in discerning primary site of tumor origin in patients with brain metastases .
Hypoxic induction of HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma lines is mediated by stress activated protein kinases .
PURPOSE : The staging of colorectal cancer , therapeutic decision making in the management of early and advanced colorectal cancer , and dilemmas posed by drug - related toxicity are discussed .
We show that HIF - 1alpha and VEGF are increased through A3 adenosine receptor stimulation , whereas the effects on IL - 8 are mediated via the A2B subtype .
TAMs counts was related to VEGF - C expression in OSCC ( r = 0 . 370 , P < 0 . 05 ) .
[ Study on the expression of angiogenesis and spontaneous apoptosis and their relevance in laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma ]
Therapeutic angiogenesis : a complex problem requiring a sophisticated approach .
BMECs co - expressing SV40T , hTERT and N - ras exhibited an overtly transformed phenotype ; forming very large colonies with an altered morphology and generating rapidly growing tumours in vivo .
Pericytes limit tumor cell metastasis .
Here we have demonstrated that mechanical strain - dependent induction of the CCN1 gene involves signaling cascades through RhoA - mediated actin remodeling and the p38 stress - activated protein kinase ( SAPK ) .
alpha - MSH also induces activation of NF - kappa B but does not modulate DNA binding on costimulation with IL - 1 beta .
Our results indicate that the nuclear phosphatase activity is inhibited by greater than 50 % in Galpha ( 12 ) QL cells compared to vector control cells .
Using tamoxifen and doxorubicin - sensitive and - resistant breast cancer cell lines as models , we found that doxorubicin - but not tamoxifen - resistance is associated with nuclear accumulation of FOXO3a , consistent with the finding that sustained nuclear FOXO3a is associated with poor prognosis .
Tie1 is an orphan tyrosine kinase receptor expressed almost exclusively in endothelial cells and is required for normal vascular development and maintenance .
Our results confirm a close link between the two metabolic enzymes and indicate an alteration in the glucose metabolism in the process of malignant transformation .
The level of VEGF expression correlated inversely with the degree of splenomegaly ( Pearson , r = - 0 . 400 , p = 0 . 011 ) .
Retinopathy is the most common microvascular diabetes complication and represents a major threat to the eyesight .
The cell type specific glycosylation protects Sp1 and HIF1alpha from proteosome degradation and plays an important and novel role in the regulation of VEGF in DCN transfected MCE cells .
The myoadipose flap : a new composite .
In vitro assays have indicated that c - myc may be a target gene of c - Myb ; however , regulation of the resident chromosomal gene has not yet been demonstrated .
We have previously described a group of genes that is rapidly up - regulated in these cells following dexamethasone ( Dex ) treatment .
METHODS : Human umbilical endothelial cells were treated with angiostatin or thalidomide and bFGF - induced proliferation was assessed with the MTT assay .
In addition , the model supports local tissue hypoxia in the liver and spleen , coupled with increased erythropoeitin signaling and erythropoiesis in the spleen and BM , and suppression of mechanisms that contribute to genomic stability , events that could be contributing factors to hemangiosarcoma formation .
Mouse p10 , an alternative spliced form of p15INK4b , inhibits cell cycle progression and malignant transformation .
The disintegrin - like and cysteine - rich domains of ADAM - 9 mediate interactions between melanoma cells and fibroblasts .
Its suppression has also been shown to be associated with malignant transformation of epithelial cells .
This potentiation is accompanied by up - regulation of the expression of VEGF receptors ( kinase insert domain - containing receptor [ KDR ] and fms - like tyrosine kinase [ Flt - 1 ] ) .
In this study , the expression of C / EBPbeta was analysed in a series of 90 gastric carcinomas ( GCs ) .
However , its transcript has been found in many soft , extracellular matrix - producing tissues ; an osteonectin - related protein was detected in tumor basement membrane .
Further , the overexpression of 14 - 3 - 3zeta correlated with histological grades , lymph node metastasis and poor clinical outcome .
Results were analyzed with chi2 tests .
The authors found that patients in the high PE group survived for a significantly shorter time than those patients in the low PE group .
Single conditional knockouts for Smad1 or Smad5 or mice homozygous null for Smad8 are viable and fertile .
The interaction of virally derived and endogenous cellular proteins converges in deregulation of cell cycle progression and appears to be critical for the development of cervical cancers .
Angiogenesis in platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule - 1 - null mice .
The data support the concept that a positive relationship exists between the density of blood vessels and the formation of bone .
We have recently found that sodium fluoride ( NaF ) induced apoptotic cell death in tumor cell lines .
The protein expression was determined by Western blot analysis .
The pathophysiology involves inflammation and angiogenesis .
PURPOSE : To optimize the method of treating choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) associated with age - related macular degeneration ( AMD ) .
The formation of functional units with these various proteins allows the uPAR to mediate the focused proteolysis required for cell migration and invasion and to contribute both directly and indirectly to cell adhesive processes in a non - proteolytic fashion .
To explore the mechanisms underlying Evi - 1 - induced oncogenesis , we investigated whether Evi - 1 affects the signaling of transforming growth factor beta ( TGF - beta ) , which inhibits proliferation of a wide range of cell types and is one of the most studied growth regulatory factors .
RESULTS : Approximate 1 , 000 protein spots were detected on silver - stained gel by ImageMaster ( 977 + / - 113 spots in Hep3B , 1092 + / - 40 in MHCC97L , and 889 + / - 14 in MHCC97H ) .
In addition , we showed that paclitaxel downregulated the phosphorylation of Akt in both HeLa and CaSki cells .
In contrast , less than 5 % of the DNA was fragmented in cells incubated with GM - CSF plus FBS or GM - CSF alone .
p53 up - regulation and p53 - mediated proliferation arrest and apoptosis were substantiated using immunohistochemistry , with activation of both the intrinsic and the extrinsic apoptotic pathways .
Inhibition of STAT3 activation by expressing a dominant - negative STAT3 protein or a STAT3 - shRNA prevented the OSM - mediated arrest .
The average survival time of the RM - 9 - IL12 mice was longer than 53 days , whereas the mean survival for mice transplanted with control RM - 9 cells was only 16 days .
Ki - 67 labeling index ( LI ) was calculated , based on Ki - 67 antigen immunostaining , as a proliferative marker .
Left ventricular capillary length density ( mm / mm ( 3 ) ) increased gradually with alinidine administration ; a 15 % increase after 2 weeks and a 40 % increase after 3 weeks of alinidine treatment were documented .
Histological evaluation included amount of fibrous and fat encapsulation , connective tissue , foreign - body reaction , neovascularization , hemorrhage , necrosis , and exudate .
Because many questions will require in vivo studies to be properly addressed , the zebrafish , with its unique accessibility to analysis by combined embryological , molecular , and genetic methods , should prove invaluable in identifying new molecules involved in blood vessel development and integrating pathways that influence embryonic blood vessel formation .
Regulation of the resident chromosomal copy of c - myc by c - Myb is involved in myeloid leukemogenesis .
It has also been demonstrated that MTSS1 is involved in the Shh signaling pathway in the developing hair follicle and in basal cell carcinomas of the skin .
The Akt / mTOR pathway assures the synthesis of HIF - 1alpha protein in a glucose - and reoxygenation - dependent manner in irradiated tumors .
Human thyroid tumours represent an example of the interplay of genetic and non genetic carcinogenesis .
These showed cleavage of caspases 9 , 8 , and 3 .
In particular , the activity of angiogenic factors is crucial for tumor progression .
The treatment of ovarian cancer cells with luteinizing hormone , follicle - stimulating hormone , and estrogen induced a significant upregulation of SEMA3B , whereas SEMA3F was upregulated only by estrogen .
Our data suggest that plasmin - nicked beta2GPI promotes angiogenesis by interacting with plasmin - generated AS4 . 5 in sites of increased fibrinolysis such as thrombus .
Immunostaining data are interpreted with computer image analysis and reported as stain index .
Notably , three immortalizing E6 mutants that do not induce direct p53 degradation but do interact with hADA3 induced the abrogation of p53 - mediated transactivation and G ( 1 ) cell cycle arrest after DNA damage , comparable to wild - type E6 .
Gene transfer of naked DNA encoding for three isoforms of vascular endothelial growth factor stimulates collateral development in vivo .
Choroidal hyperpermeability was reduced in every case .
RhoA activation promotes transformation and loss of thyroid cell differentiation interfering with thyroid transcription factor - 1 activity .
In contrast , abnormal staining was frequently found even in intramucosal carcinoma of undifferentiated - type tumours , suggesting an apparent difference in the onset of E - cadherin - catenin complex abnormality between the two cancer types .
Lewis lung carcinomas in mice by up to 65 % .
In addition , we found down - regulation of cyclin B , cyclin E , and dephosphorylation of cdk2 in ciprofloxacin - treated bladder tumor cells .
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS : Adipose tissue samples from visceral ( VAT ) and subcutaneous ( SAT ) sites , obtained from 36 obese patients ( mean BMI 46 . 5 kg / m ( 2 ) ) during bariatric surgery , were layered on chick chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) .
The antitumor activity of cRGD - HL was also evaluated by monitoring tumor growth and microvessel formation in squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC7 ) tumor .
High levels of these angiogenic factors in heart disease also have not translated into clinically significant new vessel formation , as in accelerated cancer growth or proliferative retinopathy .
Scanning electron microscopy of vascular casts was used to investigate three experimental models of neovascularization .
Preliminary in vitro studies showed that the agents significantly inhibited RNA and DNA synthesis in Ehrlich ascites cells .
We developed reference intervals for serum and urine IL - 8 level in 131 control individuals .
We verified the predicted ELK - 1 - - > tPA transcriptional regulatory relationship using a luciferase reporter assay .
Diabetes impairs endothelial function and reparative neovascularization .
By introducing a cDNA library derived from rat embryonic fibroblast cells , we isolated several morphologically flat revertants of rat 3Y1 cells transformed by the E6 and E7 genes of human papillomavirus type 18 ( HPV18 ) .
Furthermore , we showed that glycogen was depleted in a low glucose medium , but conserved under hypoxic conditions .
We have reported recently that the long terminal repeat ( LTR ) of Moloney murine leukemia virus encodes a trans activator which induces transcription and expression of class I major histocompatibility complex genes and certain cytokine genes .
CONCLUSIONS : The combination of bevacizumab and irinotecan is safe and has excellent activity even in this relapsed , heavily pretreated population of patients with high - grade malignant glioma , most of whom would not be candidates for clinical trials .
Vaccination is associated with enhancement of splenocyte - mediated tumoricidal activity , whereas the effect of gammaIFN is mediated by KC .
Rhizochalin is a two - headed sphingolipid - like compound isolated from the sponge Rhizochalina incrustata .
PURPOSE : Recent studies of cancer metastasis have focused on the role of premetastatic gene expression and circulating tumor cells .
The ACIS index , using a cutoff point defined by the median value , < or = 3 % versus > 3 % , was related to 5 - year DM rates in univariate analyses ( 32 . 6 % vs . 45 . 8 % ; P = 0 . 057 ) and MVA ( P = 0 . 06 ) .
Randomized , open label , prospective study on the effect of zoledronic acid on the prevention of bone metastases in patients with recurrent solid tumors that did not present with bone metastases at baseline .
RAF265 , a novel B - Raf / vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 2 inhibitor , was evaluated in the preclinical setting for its ability to inhibit the uptake of PET tracers in the A375M ( B - Raf ( V600E ) ) human melanoma cell line .
Potentiation of camptothecin - induced apoptosis by TRAIL appears dependent on cooperation between extrinsic and intrinsic pathways , as documented by loss of the sensitization to apoptosis following reduction of caspase 8 after small interfering RNA transfection .
Enhancement of docetaxel - induced cytotoxicity and apoptosis by all - trans retinoic acid ( ATRA ) through downregulation of survivin ( BIRC5 ) , MCL - 1 and LTbeta - R in hormone - and drug resistant prostate cancer cell line , DU - 145 .
Overexpression of these proteins is independent of the transcriptional upregulation of their genes , and occurs only in highly malignant breast cancer cells .
Here , we show that gene transfer - induced p75 ( NTR ) expression impairs the survival , proliferation , migration , and adhesion capacities of cultured ECs and endothelial progenitor cells ( EPCs ) and inhibits angiogenesis in vitro .
These included 40 ( 56 % ) metastases from a primary lung carcinoma and 31 ( 44 % ) metastases from some nonpulmonary carcinoma .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : The tissues were stained with monoclonal antibodies to EGFR , TGF - alpha and Ki - 67 .
This primitive vascular network is extensively remodeled in some places , and expanded by sprouting in others .
CD40 activation by CD154 may trigger diverse cellular responses , ranging from proliferation and differentiation to growth suppression and cell death , in normal and malignant cells .
Although contaminating kinases were detectable in the immune complexes , at least the p53 molecules were phosphorylated in vitro in a more specific way .
Therefore , the phenotypic traits of the miR - BHRF1 - 2 null mutant could result partly from reduced miR - BHRF1 - 1 and miR - BHRF1 - 3 expression levels .
These findings suggest that poorly vascularized neuroblastomas become immature and maintain a more aggressive phenotype , which possibly could involve a sustained stabilization and activation of HIF - 2alpha .
Angiogenesis has an essential role in promoting and supporting tumor growth and it is an important therapeutic target .
RESULTS : The positive c - kit protein expression and c - kit gene mutation rates were 97 . 6 % ( 80 / 82 ) and 41 . 5 % ( 34 / 82 ) .
To further analyze RhoA function in thyroid cell proliferation and differentiation patterns , we combined transient and stable transfection assays to express different mutant RhoA forms in FRTL - 5 cells .
Tissue integration and implant characteristics of various biomaterials commonly used for inguinal hernia repair have not been studied extensively .
Here , we demonstrate in mice pleiotropic involvement of PTHrP in key steps of breast cancer - it influences the initiation and progression of primary tumors and metastases .
Two of these spots were identified by MALDI - MS analysis as proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( PCNA ) and myeloid - leukemia - associated SET protein .
FAS - 1377 G / A polymorphism and the risk of lymph node metastasis in cervical cancer .
After GM - CSF or IL - 3 , a 1 . 2 - to 2 . 4 - fold increase in S - phase cells was observed in nine of 14 GM - CSF and seven of 11 IL - 3 cases .
Thus , c - myc induction is a resistance factor and our findings suggest that tumors carrying low levels of c - Myc protein could be more responsive to vinca alkaloids treatment .
Estradiol increases IL - 8 secretion of normal human breast tissue and breast cancer in vivo .
Several members were detected in insulinoma cell lines and rat islets and expression levels positively correlated with insulin abundance , particularly for p24delta1 and p24beta1 .
Adult rat urothelial cells were transformed in vitro following treatment with a single dose of N - methyl - N - nitrosourea ( MNU ) or MNU treatment followed by promotion with sodium saccharin .
Caspase activation , mitochondrial depolarization , and cytochrome c release were increased under these conditions .
These results suggest that apoptosis caused by elevated expression of Fas is involved in chemoprevention by lactoferrin of colon carcinogenesis .
TGF alpha was studied with the appropriate antibody .
Both were positive for HIF - 1alpha and phosphorylated c - Myc , and only one was positive for pAkt .
In addition , it significantly extends the passage number of MEF cells to more than 30 after retroviral infection , compared with less than 5 for uninfected MEF cells .
The role of SWAP - 70 in oncogenic transformation of mouse embryo fibroblasts ( MEFs ) by v - Src was examined by use of MEFs defective in SWAP - 70 .
VEGF and p53 protein were significantly coexpressed in 26 ( 43 . 4 % ) .
RESULTS : As of November 30 , 1994 , the median follow - up period was 12 years .
RESULTS : ( 1 ) SREBP was activated during ECs migration .
In contrast , the implants that were irradiated three times ( single fractions at 0 , 24 , and 48 hours after implantation ) demonstrated significantly diminished ( greater than 25 percent , p less than 0 . 05 ) neovascularization beyond day 7 , whereas implants irradiated only at 48 hours after implantation did not .
Recently , knock - out mice of homeobox genes by targeted disruption have also been used to examine their hematological effect .
However , no published data are available concerning the biological and clinical significance of COUP - TFII expression in colorectal cancer .
Consequently , increased adhesion of cancer cells to endothelial cells was observed by the treatment of carcinostatic agents .
In this review focus will be on OPN in bone and its role in adhesion , migration and cell survival .
DMBA maxima were significantly higher than those of DMBA + radiation .
In summary , LPA is likely a key component for promoting ovarian metastasis in vivo .
These results define a novel function of Evi - 1 as a repressor of signaling components of TGF - beta .
In tissues with a normally high metabolic turnover such as skeletal and cardiac muscle , even mild ischemia causes hypoxia , acidosis , and depressed function ( contractility ) and eventually threatens myocyte viability and organ function .
The mechanism of this potent collaboration is elucidated in this study of Runx2 / MYC mice .
Some mice in each group were euthanized 24 hours after the end of IR .
We analyzed their ability to block endothelial cell chemotaxis and induce apoptosis in vitro and their antiangiogenic activity in vivo .
It is the driving force for tumor development as it facilitates the accumulation of mutations in genes that regulate cell death and proliferation and therefore promotes malignant transformation .
In this review , the mechanisms and factors involved in tumor blood vessel formation are discussed .
Metronomic 5 - fluorouracil , oxaliplatin and irinotecan in colorectal cancer .
Promotion of tumorigenesis by heterozygous disruption of the beclin 1 autophagy gene .
METHODS : From June 2004 to December 2007 , 132 patients received diagnosis and treatment in our hospital .
Under specific conditions , casein could be used as an exogenous substrate as well .
In invasive NM - e - ras - MAC1 cells , where E - cadherin was partially downregulated by specific antisense RNA , syndecan - 1 expression was suppressed .
CONCLUSION : The optimal approach to the treatment of colorectal cancer depends on several considerations , including patient - specific factors .
It is synthesised and secreted by the ciliary body epithelium ( CBE ) from the initiation of CBE development in the embryo , and production continues throughout life .
The 5 - yr survival rate in patients with the coexpression was poorer than in the other patients .
METHODS : Immunohistochemical and PCR - SSCP techniques were used to detect c - kit protein expression and c - kit gene exon 11 mutation in 82 patients with GIST .
One year after radiotherapy final median VA was 20 / 400 in both groups .
We examined these cell lines and samples from breast cancer by RT - PCR for the expressions of OPG and RANKL mRNA .
Moreover , we demonstrate that this inflammation - driven netrin - 1 up - regulation is causal for colorectal cancer development as interference with netrin - 1 autocrine loop in a mouse model for ulcerative colitis - associated colorectal cancer , while showing no effect on inflammation , inhibits colorectal cancer progression .
Although angiostatin administered intravenously is cleared from the circulation in a matter of minutes , angiostatin - mimetics that are more stable have potential for clinical application .
p63 - positive carcinomas were poorly differentiated , hormone receptor - negative neoplasms with a high proliferation rate .
Latency was markedly increased and occurrence decreased in the p190 del C lines as compared with nonmutated p190 BCR / ABL transgenics .
We now report direct evidence that N1 ( ic ) must accumulate in the nucleus to induce transformation of RKE cells .
In addition , it inhibits human umbilical vein endothelial cell proliferation , migration , adhesion , tubular network formation , and bFGF - induced neovascularization in a chick chorioallantoic membrane .
To elucidate the biological role of the endogenous angiogenesis inhibitor thrombospondin - 2 ( TSP - 2 ) during multistep carcinogenesis , we subjected TSP - 2 - deficient and wild - type mice to a chemical skin carcinogenesis regimen .
TEMF treatment continued for 3 additional weeks .
BACKGROUND : The aim of this study was to investigate not only the intratumoral and peritumoral lymphatic vessel density ( ILD and PLD ) but also the expression of vascular endothelial growth factors ( VEGFs ) and to test their correlation with regional lymph nodal metastases in papillary thyroid microcarcinoma ( PTMC ) .
Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays further confirmed specific c - Myc binding to galectin - 1 promoter .
The effects of this compound on the vascular development lend credibility to its potential as an anticancer agent .
NF - kappaB and IKK as therapeutic targets in cancer .
Through morphological and biochemical analyses , it was demonstrated that NCI - H1299 cells treated with BV exhibit several features of apoptosis .
However , effective HDAC inhibitors for the treatment of solid tumors remain to be developed .
The genetics of transformation by SV 40 .
These findings identify c - MYC as an important molecular switch that alters the cellular response to OSM - mediated signaling from tumor suppressive to tumor promoting .
High osteonectin expression was correlated with high lung colonization .
An immunohistochemical study .
CONCLUSION : In conclusion , we strongly suggest that docetaxel and ATRA combination is a good candidate for this challenging era of daily oncologic practice .
Systemic administration of VEGF or LPS in adult mice resulted in cyclosporine A - sensitive reactivation of the DSCR1s promoter and endogenous gene expression in a subset of organs , including the heart and brain .
These data thus indicate that the effects on hemostasis of the drugs examined can contribute only marginally to their antimetastatic action , since more pronounced effects on hemostasis have been shown to be required to significantly affect metastasis formation .
Furthermore , it was shown that thiol - containing antioxidants completely blocked MOG - induced mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss and subsequent cell apoptosis , while the inhibition of apoptosis by benzyloxy - carbonyl - Val - Ala - Asp - fluoromethylketone only partially attenuated mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss , indicating that MOG - induced redox imbalance is an early event upstream to mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss and caspase - 3 activation .
We have used retroviral - mediated gene delivery to effect sustained autocrine expression of TIMP - 3 in murine neuroblastoma and melanoma tumor cells in order to further examine the ability of TIMPs to inhibit angiogenesis in vivo .
In the meantime preventive use of bisphosphonates in patients without any bone metastases should not be used outside the scope of a clinical trial .
To explore the gene expression changes that occur downstream of ELK - 1 dephosphorylation , we used a combination of temporal gene expression data and promoter element analyses .
High - risk human papillomaviruses ( HPVs ) are associated with carcinomas of the cervix and other genital tumors .
Dominant negative interference of transcription factor AP - 2 causes inhibition of ErbB - 3 expression and suppresses malignant cell growth .
Addition of the caspase inhibitor Z - VAD . fmk inhibited caspase 8 and 3 significantly but did not affect caspase 9 .
CONCLUSIONS : PDT can reduce the clinical signs of activity , such as choroidal hyperpermeability or neurosensorial retinal detachment , in patients affected by chronic CSC .
Breast tissue taken at varying postoperative times ( n = 92 ) or during surgery ( controls , n = 17 ) , was used to investigate the temporal and spatial activity of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 during human wound healing .
Although the increase in p53 levels could be a secondary by - product of the transformed state , it is equally possible that p53 is actively involved in altering cellular growth properties , especially as it has been implicated in the regulation of normal cell proliferation .
Onconase similarly inhibited proliferation in all three cell lines ( IC ( 50 ) = 0 . 3 - 1 . 0 microM ) while ( - 4 ) rhEDN was more effective on immortalized HUVEC cell lines ( IC ( 50 ) = 0 . 02 - 0 . 06 microM ) than on primary HUVECs ( IC ( 50 ) > 0 . 1 microM ) .
1 , 4 - phenylenebis ( methylene ) selenocyanate , but not selenomethionine , inhibits androgen receptor and Akt signaling in human prostate cancer cells .
After 2 h incubation at 37 degrees C the drop in the ATP level was much lower .
There is accumulating evidence of a role for IGF - 1 in multiple vascular pathologies , including atherosclerosis , hypertension , restenosis , angiogenesis , and diabetic vascular disease .
Inhibition of p38 SAPK reduced CBP HAT activity and its recruitment to the SRF . MRTF - A complex , whereas enforced induction of p38 by upstream activators ( e . g . MKK3 and MKK6 ) enhanced both CBP HAT and CCN1 promoter activities .
Hence , we propose that the vector system , 5xHRE / SV40 / sTie2 , might be a useful tool for down - regulating tumor angiogenesis under hypoxic condition .
Under these conditions , 2 - DG drastically enhanced the radiation - induced cell death of spheroids ( by 2 - 3 folds ) ; while a 40 % increase was observed in monolayer cells .
H - ras mutations in human pituitary carcinoma metastases .
Endocytosis of the conjugate and decomposition of the acid - labile linkage inside lysosomes and other acidic intracellular compartments should then lead to release of the cortisol and expression of its antiproliferative activity .
Here , we demonstrate that Ang1 halts the ability of VEGF to induce the phosphorylation - dependent redistribution of the adhesion molecule VE - cadherin , thereby rescuing the endothelial barrier function .
Rat - 1 cells which had been transformed with the activated Ha - ras - 1 gene from human EJ bladder carcinoma cells were fused with diploid embryonic rat fibroblasts .
Controlling lymph node metastasis is currently a key issue in cancer therapy .
Proteomic comparison of nasopharyngeal cancer cell lines C666 - 1 and NP69 identifies down - regulation of annexin II and beta2 - tubulin for nasopharyngeal carcinoma .
IL - 8 or CXCL8 has been associated with tumor angiogenesis , metastasis , and poor prognosis in breast cancer .
In vivo glucose and alanine kinetics were examined by tracer methodology in a sarcoma - bearing rat model .
BACKGROUND : The murine nm23 gene suppresses the metastatic behavior of malignant rodent tumor lines , and reduced nm23 expression correlates with increased likelihood of lymph node metastases in human breast cancers .
We report that neuronal death resulting from focal cerebral ischaemia ( middle cerebral artery occlusion , 24 h ) is significantly inhibited ( by 50 % ) in rats injected with a recombinant IL - 1 receptor antagonist ( IL - 1ra , 10 micrograms , icv 30 min before and 10 min after ischaemia ) .
In this article we have focused on a role of IL - 6 as a prognostic factor in several malignancies such as colorectal cancer , breast cancer , gastric cancer and pancreatic cancer .
MEK5 / ERK5 signaling modulates endothelial cell migration and focal contact turnover .
Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 staining was relatively sparse but was significantly increased until 8 weeks after surgery .
DMI is suggested to inhibit the growth of Ca3 / 7 cells and to affect GR - mediated transcription .
Thus , our results indicate that under appropriate conditions rho genes function as oncogenes and may have a role in the regulation of proliferation in fibroblast cells .
Endothelialisation and platelet adhesion to purified endothelial cell - derived perlecan , the major heparan sulfate ( HS ) proteoglycan in basement membranes , were investigated using in vivo and in vitro assays .
Fluorescence - activated cell sorter analysis showed that isolated tumor ECs have suppressed levels of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 as compared with ECs from normal mouse tissues .
In vivo , tumors derived from cell clones expressing high levels of VEGF displayed significantly enhanced angiogenesis and more aggressive growth .
Finally , in human umbilical cord blood cells , we show that endothelial precursors make up only approximately 1 in 10 ( 7 ) mononuclear cells but are highly enriched in the CD133 + cell population .
VEGF was also increased in parallel to enhanced IGF - 1 expression .
BACKGROUND : Vascular adhesion protein - 1 ( VAP - 1 ) regulates leukocyte tissue infiltration .
Tumor cells express the glycolytic regulator pyruvate kinase subtype M2 ( M2 - PK ) , which can occur in a tetrameric form with high affinity to its substrate phosphoenolpyruvate ( PEP ) and a dimeric form with a low PEP affinity .
We report one case of advanced gastric cancer with lung and lymph node metastases that completely responded to TS - 1 .
We also found an increase of tumor growth and lung metastasis count in TB4 - Tg mice as compared to wildtype mice .
Extracellular matrix as a bioactive material for soft tissue reconstruction .
It may modulate cellular energy metabolism or be a substrate in a chemical reaction generating reactive oxygen species .
Pharmacological inhibition of autophagic flux by chloroquine increased apoptosis and decreased cell viability in hepatoma cells .
METHODS : Preoperative plasma fibrinogen levels were retrospectively examined in 405 patients who underwent surgery for advanced gastric cancer .
CONTEXT : Nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( NPC ) , common in southern China and North Africa , has a complex etiology involving interplay between viral , environmental , and hereditary factors and is almost constantly associated with the Epstein - Barr virus .
Development of a mouse model for lymph node metastasis with endometrial cancer .
Magnitude of malate - aspartate reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide shuttle activity in intact respiring tumor cells .
It could be demonstrated that RAGE plays a pivotal role in structural damage ( e . g . inflammation , neoangiogenesis and fibrosis ) of the peritoneal membrane .
Migration of capillary endothelial cells is an important component of angiogenesis in vivo .
Protein expression was statistically compared to the degree of immune cell infiltration and microvessel density in epithelial - derived ovarian tumors and a significant correlation was observed for both .
These results demonstrate the importance of specific oncogene interaction in myeloid leukemogenesis .
We tested the hypothesis that vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , an endothelial cell mitogen and a major regulator of angiogenesis , is upregulated in response to low heart rate and consequential increased stroke volume .
Although anti - VEGF therapies have clearly demonstrated antitumor efficacy in various malignancies , especially when combined with conventional cytotoxic chemotherapy , their mechanism of action is not fully understood .
Among these are vascular endothelial growth factor - A ( VEGF - A ) , the key angiogenic stimulant , and VEGF - C , a primary mediator of lymphangiogenesis .
We compared a treatment schedule were cells were bolus incubated for 3h with doxorubicin followed by 24h in drug - free medium , with a continuous doxorubicin treatment schedule for 24h .
The feasibility of such a strategy has now been established through the results of studies over the past decade , and a new discipline called therapeutic angiogenesis has emerged .
It has been reported that rhizocalin and its derivates have a chemopreventive and chemotherapeutic effect .
Endothelial cell migration and vascular endothelial growth factor expression are the result of loss of breast tissue polarity .
The non - invasive human melanoma cell line , IF6 , which does not express uPA , provided further confirmation of PAI - 1 and uPA ' s role as , upon transfection with uPA , this cell line attained an invasive phenotype , which was again attenuated by MAI - 12 .
In contrast to the results obtained with c - jun , the levels of junB mRNA and protein were found to be reduced two - or threefold in revertant EMS - 1 - 19 .
Up - regulation of PFKFB2 expression was mediated by the direct binding of ligand - activated androgen receptor to the PFKFB2 promoter .
The nucleotide sequence of the cDNA was shown to be identical to that of the 3 ' untranslated region of a putative mammalian polycomb group gene , mel - 18 .
In addition , we found an increase of angiogenesis and HIF - 1alpha expression in TB4 - transgenic ( Tg ) mice as compared to wildtype mice .
In vitro cell proliferation , combination studies and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) secretion analyses were performed on endothelial ( HMVEC - d ) and colorectal cancer ( HT - 29 ) cells exposed for 144 h to metronomic concentrations of SN - 38 , the active metabolite of CPT - 11 , L - OHP and 5 - FU .
These results suggest that the tumor - bearing animal , even prior to significant cachexia , has an excess demand for energy , the provision of which may be a significant factor in malignant cachexia .
In this study , we applied a proteomics strategy to identify novel proteins involved in ECM modeling that are regulated by LRP - 1 .
Compared with CSC - low tumors , CSC - high tumors exhibited increased microvessel density and blood perfusion and induced increased mobilization and tumor recruitment of bone marrow - derived endothelial progenitor cells ( EPC ) .
BAG - 1 is expressed ubiquitously in human cells as three major isoforms of 50 kDa ( BAG - 1L ) , 46 kDa ( BAG - 1M ) and 36 kDa ( BAG - 1S ) from a single mRNA .
This may reflect a transition in blood concentration of each metabolite resulting from the administration of UFT .
BACKGROUND : Impaired expression of E - cadherin and alpha - and beta - catenin is frequently observed in several human cancers .
METHODS : Forty patients with recurrent or metastatic advanced cancer , without bone metastases , were randomized into the trial to either receive zoledronic acid or no treatment .
There are limited mouse models for the BMP signaling SMADs ( BR - SMADs ) 1 , 5 , and 8 because of embryonic lethality and suspected genetic redundancy .
The principal types of tumors were plasmacytomas secreting immunoglobulin and novel lymphomas that expressed markers such as Sca - 1 , CD4 , Thy - 1 , CD34 and CD45 ( B220 ) , consistent with an origin very early in B - lymphoid development .
Acute ethanol exposure disrupts VEGF receptor cell signaling in endothelial cells .
Effect of thalidomide affecting VEGF secretion , cell migration , adhesion and capillary tube formation of human endothelial EA . hy 926 cells .
Concomitant inhibition of autophagy may be an attractive strategy for unlocking the antitumor potential of sorafenib in HCC .
HGF were stimulated with lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) , vesicle ( Ve ) and outer membrane protein ( OMP ) from Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans and Porphyromonas gingivalis .
Treatment with pharmacological inhibitors and small interfering RNAs reveal that induction and activation of Sp1 , HIF1alpha , and Stat3 facilitate their nuclear localization and binding to their specific motifs of the VEGF promoter and induce VEGF expression via two independent pathways , DCN / EGFR / phosphoinositide - 3 kinase / AKT and DCN / EGFR / ERK1 / 2 , respectively , in DCN synthesizing MCE cells .
DPD expression did not significantly correlate with the occurrence of lymph node metastasis , nor was it different between primary oral cancer cells and cervical metastases .
Here we demonstrated that all retinal MCs express CX3C chemokine receptor 1 ( CX3CR1 ) and that homozygosity for the CX3CR1 M280 allele , which is associated with impaired cell migration , increases the risk of AMD .
DAPT delivery from the hydrogels also did not lead to any adverse side effects , in contrast to systemic introduction of DAPT .
s - VEGF in peripheral blood samples was analyzed in 40 RCC patients and 40 patients without cancer ( controls ) using a sandwich enzyme - linked immunoassay .
To understand the molecular basis of carcinogenesis from the beginning to the full acquirement of malignancy , factors concerned with carcinogenesis were categorized into three groups : those guarding and stabilizing genomes , those regulating cell proliferation , and those conferring resistance to various micro - environmental stresses .
The DSCR1s promoter was similarly induced in the endothelium of tumor xenografts .
Microvascular corrosion casts of caruncles from non - pregnant and pregnant doe goats at 4 , 7 , 10 , 13 , 16 , and 18 weeks were examined with scanning electron microscopy .
Hypoxia also increased VEGF production by SCC lines , which was inhibited by treatment with SB203580 .
VEGF gene expression and capillary density in the old donor - derived group were lower than those in the young donor - derived group but higher than those in the control group ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
Furthermore , IL - 1beta - induced p38 mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) activation and upregulation of VEGF - C mRNA and protein in LLC cells was also suppressed by artemisinin or by the p38 MAPK inhibitor SB - 203580 , suggesting that p38 MAPK could serve as a mediator of proinflammatory cytokine - induced VEGF - C expression .
Is it possible that CD47 may also negatively affect cerebral endothelial cells ?
However , co - culture of these cancer cells with stromal or osteoblastic cells induced RANKL mRNA expression and decreased OPG mRNA expression .
Crosstalk between these two pathways is also thought to contribute to progression and hormone - refractory prostate disease .
Circulating endothelial cells in malignant disease .
Moreover , we showed that combination of E1A gene therapy and SAHA showed high therapeutic efficacy with low toxicity in vivo ovarian and breast xenograft models .
Formation of new bone during vertical distraction osteogenesis of the human mandible is related to the presence of blood vessels .
The result showed that the multilevel of FPC could all apparently induce Bel - 7402 apoptosis .
Curcumin induces apoptosis in immortalized NIH 3T3 and malignant cancer cell lines .
Furthermore , mouse embryonic fibroblasts required the presence of B16F0 cells to express Patched in a co - culture assay system .
Prophylactic thyroidectomy in MEN IIA : does the calcitonin level correlate with tumor spread ?
The archival surgical pathology files of The Johns Hopkins Hospital were searched for cases of brain metastases biopsied between 1990 and 2000 .
TESTING THE HYPOTHESIS : Stimulation of dormant micrometastases by primary tumor removal is known to occur in animal models .
The angiogenic action of thrombin has been shown to be mediated by activation of the thrombin receptor .
We found that the mean tumor volumes and weights were statistically significantly less in mice treated with galectin - 3C compared with control mice , and that fewer numbers of mice exhibited lymph node metastases in the treated group compared with the control group .
These processes are regulated by numerous pro - angiogenic and anti - angiogenic growth factors .
We have previously characterized the structure of a gene in A - 172 human glioma cells that encodes a 190 - kDa EGFR mutant with tandem duplication of the tyrosine kinase ( TK ) and calcium - mediated internalization ( CAIN ) domains .
Following implantation within the striatum , the volume of the primary fibroblast grafts , stained immunohistochemically for fibronectin , does not differ significantly at 3 and 8 weeks .
DNA microarray analysis allows for analysis of drug effects on multiple pathways linked to cancer and can suggest corresponding imaging tracers for further analysis as biomarkers of tumor response .
Sunitinib is an oral multitargeted receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor with antiangiogenic and antitumor activity that mainly targets vascular endothelial growth factor receptors ( VEGFRs ) .
The importance of NO in the vasculature is demonstrated by several experimental conditions , such as vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) - induced angiogenesis .
The tumor - suppressive action of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS in subcutaneous human lung tumor A549 xenograft correlated with a reduced number of capillary vessels in tumors .
Furthermore , GK rats were treated s . c twice daily with IL - 1Ra ( Kineret , Amgen , 100 mg / kg / day ) or saline , from 4 weeks of age onwards ( onset of diabetes ) .
Cells of the highly metastatic lung - colonizing clone MTF7 . T35 . 3 , derived from the 13762NF cell line , were treated for 3 days with 0 . 1 , 1 , or 10 microM all - trans - RA , harvested , and seeded on [ 3H ] proline - labeled extracellular matrix deposited by cultured rat lung endothelial cells or on a film of purified [ 3H ] proline - labeled type IV collagen .
Bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy is first - line therapy for stage IV disease .
The area covered by spread EC was dramatically enlarged , accompanied by an increase in focal contacts and altered organization of actin filaments .
Expression of thymidylate synthase and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase in primary oral squamous cell carcinoma and corresponding metastases in cervical lymph nodes : association with the metastasis suppressor CD82 .
The apparent first - order rate constant for GSH decay increased progressively for L1210 cells expressing a range of GPX activities from approximately 5 % to 100 % , demonstrating that peroxide detoxification is strictly dependent on enzyme content .
The end result in individuals surviving burn shock is immunosuppression , with increased susceptibility to potentially fatal systemic burn wound or pulmonary sepsis .
These were pigmented , and maintained expression of tyrosinase , TRP - 1 , cytokeratin and SV40 Tag .
The mode of Ca2 + entry regulating cell shape is unknown .
The success of current systemic and intravesical therapeutic agents , such as cisplatin , thiotepa , Adriamycin , mitomycin C , and bacillus Calmette - Guerin , is limited with recurrence rates reduced to 17 - 44 % .
RESULT : The average IMVD was ( 21 . 50 + / - 8 . 87 ) , and median of AI was 1 . 15 % .
The transformation is a consequence of the ability of viruses to integrate into the host cell ' s DNA and to produce transforming proteins .
Patients with liver and / or bone metastases had significantly higher median concentrations of S - 100beta , IL - 6 and IL - 10 than those with only skin , nodal and / or lung involvement .
In an effort to decipher the mechanism by which HGF up - regulates its receptor , we found that c - Met is a direct transcriptional target of Mitf .
The tumor apoptosis was observed by electron microscopy .
E mu cyclin D1 transgenic mice show only very subtle alterations in the cycling behaviour of B - cell populations in the bone marrow compared with normal mice and do not develop lymphoid tumours .
In a complex organism , somatic cells are under intermittent selection pressure for the emergence of mutants that can survive environmental insults and that can grow autonomously despite adverse conditions .
Western blots confirmed that LeTx treatment reduced the levels of phosphorylated extracellular signal - regulated kinase and p38 MAPK in vitro .
Expanded polytetrafluoroethylene ( PTFE ) sheets were implanted adjacent to both superficial epigastric vascular pedicles of 63 rats distributed into 7 groups ( n = 7 ) that differed with respect to dose and timing of irradiation .
Taken together , these results demonstrate that overexpression of TIMP - 3 can inhibit angiogenesis and associated tumor growth , and that the antiangiogenic effects of TIMP - 3 appear to be mediated through the inhibition of functional capillary morphogenesis .
Cytotoxic chemotherapy resistance is linked to limited therapeutic options and poor prognosis .
Using univariate analysis , the S - 100beta level and metastatic profile were found to be statistically significant prognostic factors for survival .
However , the biochemical mechanisms by which MTSS1 functions in cells and the physiological role of this protein in animals remain largely unknown .
HIF - 1alpha stabilization and the expression of VEGF isoform 165 and 121 in hypoxia were also reduced by the infection of lentiviral shRNA of TB4 in B16F10 cells .
At later stages , branches of radial arteries penetrated the periphery forming an extensive mesh of capillaries on the concave surface .
Inhibition of ethanol metabolism by 4 - methylpyrazole partially abrogated the effect of ethanol on endothelial cell cord formation .
In acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) with t ( 7 ; 11 ) translocation , the HOX A9 gene is rearranged .
To identify a suitable donor cell population for gene therapy applications to the central nervous system , primary fibroblasts isolated from skin biopsies and maintained in culture are employed as autologous cells for intracerebral grafting within the adult rat striatum .
An unusual primary adenomatoid tumour arising in the normal liver is described .
The pentapeptide SFLLR , like thrombin , caused a marked stimulation of angiogenesis in the CAM .
We also compared the presence of EGFR and TGF - alpha and Ki - 67 index with clinical data .
An intracellular complex containing NRP1 and KDR was immunoprecipitated from EC by anti - NRP1 antibodies only in the presence of VEGF165 .
Vascular and neoplastic tissue from 14 colonic adenocarcinomas , 13 carcinoids , 6 renal - cell carcinomas and 7 malignant lymphomas were analyzed for somatostatin receptors by use of quantitative receptor autoradiography .
The metastasis group showed significantly higher alpha - SMA expression compared with the no metastasis group ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
Silencing of monocarboxylate transporters via small interfering ribonucleic acid inhibits glycolysis and induces cell death in malignant glioma : an in vitro study .
Angiogenesis plays an important role in many types of cancer .
Taken together , these results lend great support to use PDGFRbeta antagonists in combinations with other antitumor and / or anti - angiogenic agents in the treatment of a variety of cancers .
Prognostic value of angiogenesis in operable non - small cell lung cancer .
In comparison with nonmetastasis Hep3B cell lines , there were 16 proteins overexpressed in MHCC97H and MHCC97L , 10 proteins underexpressed in MHCC97H and MHCC97L .
It is therefore highly likely that these alterations are an important component in tumor resistance to therapy .
In in vivo experiments , the metastasis and survival of tumor - engrafted mice were monitored .
Thus , our results from differential proteome analysis presented here report for the first time a role for SET in Galpha ( 12 ) - mediated signaling pathways and a role for Galpha ( 12 ) in the regulation of the leukemia - associated SET - protein expression .
Moreover , we have found that gamma - hydroxybutyric acid and gamma - butyrolactone , the metabolites of FT , possess a potent angiogenesis inhibitory effect that is amplified when the compounds are administered by a continuous infusion .
Domain 5 of cleaved high molecular weight kininogen inhibits endothelial cell migration through Akt .
Thus , UV - induced Erbb2 activation increases skin tumorigenesis through inhibitory phosphorylation of Chk1 , Cdc25a maintenance , and suppression of S - phase arrest via a PI3K / Akt - dependent mechanism .
TNFalpha treatment in cultured cells resulted in increased gene mutations , gene amplification , micronuclei formation and chromosomal instability .
Our group seeks to determine the basic mechanisms underlying ES wound therapy , an area where understanding is currently limited .
Levels of pro - angiogenic vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and angiogenic inhibitor pigment epithelium - derived factor ( PEDF ) were determined .
Increasing evidence suggests that EMT plays a specific role in the migration of cells from a primary tumor into the circulation and may provide a rationale for developing more effective cancer therapies .
In this study , the expression of the cadherin - catenin complex and p53 was studied in early gastric cancer .
As the p53 gene is known to possess tumor suppressor activity , the functional loss of this gene may be a significant step in the development of a subset of HCCs .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is a naturally secreted endothelial cell - specific mitogen .
After decapitation of the rats , trunk blood was obtained , and the ileum , liver , and kidney were removed for histological examination and for the measurement of malondialdehyde ( MDA ) and glutathione ( GSH ) levels , myeloperoxidase ( MPO ) activity , and collagen content .
Our experiments demonstrate that insulin - like growth factor I indeed induces hexokinase gene expression in a concentration and time dependent manner in two cancer cell lines we studied .
In transfected MDCK canine kidney epithelial cells , 5T4 over - expression also results in increased motility , but disruption of cell - cell contacts , either by culturing cells in low calcium medium or by addition of HGF / SF , is needed .
In addition , all of the endometrial cancer cell lines lost normal DCC expression .
The prototype system proved relatively easy to operate .
The objective of this article is to explain radiologic patterns of benign and malignant breast lesions ( masses , microcalcifications ) based on histological correlations .
In this study , we show that Tsg101 is highly expressed in a subset of invasive human breast cancers .
Vascular histomorphometry was carried out in two different areas in the distraction gap : ( 1 ) in the first and ( 2 ) in the second 1 mm area from the osteotomy line , representing the oldest and younger new - bone area , respectively .
Given the likely role of the evolutionarily conserved hADA3 in multiple coactivator complexes , inactivation of its function may allow E6 to perturb numerous cellular pathways during HPV oncogenesis .
Examination of checkpoint pathway activation upstream of Cdc25a revealed Erbb2 activation did not alter Ataxia Telangiectasia and Rad3 - related / Ataxia Telangiectasia Mutated activity but increased inhibitory phosphorylation of Chk1 - Ser ( 280 ) .
CONCLUSION : The protein profile of metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines displayed obvious differences compared with non - metastatic liver cancer cell lines .
We quantified CYR61 , CTGF , WISP - 1 , and NOV mRNA expression levels in samples from sixty - six primary gliomas and five normal brain samples using quantitative real - time PCR assay .
In the present study , the vascular grade was assessed in 107 ( T1 , 2 - N0 , 1 ) operable non - small cell lung carcinomas , using the JC70 monoclonal antibody to CD31 .
RESULTS : A total of 13 PCNSLs ( 31 % ) demonstrated hypermethylation in either the promoter or exon 1 ; loss of HRK expression was immunohistochemically observed in 9 tumors and was significantly associated with promoter methylation .
We conclude that Oxygent increases TET epithelial PtO ( 2 ) , improves epithelial metabolism , does not impair angiogenesis , and tends to slow cartilage tissue formation .
The selective antimetastatic agents p - ( 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 1 - triazeno ) benzoic acid potassium salt ( DM - COOK ) , 5 - ( 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 1 - triazeno ) imidazole - 4 - carboxamide ( DTIC ) and ( + / - ) 1 , 2 - di ( 3 , 5 - dioxopiperazin - 1 - yl ) propane ( ICRF - 159 ) have been shown to markedly depress the formation of spontaneous hematogenous metastases in mice bearing s . c .
In vitro studies also suggest progesterone may play a role in modulating inflammation .
SOC activation in rat pulmonary arterial endothelial cells increased free cytosolic Ca2 + that was dependent on a membrane current having a net inward component of 5 . 45 + / - 0 . 90 pA / pF at - 80 mV .
Regulation of skin microvasculature angiogenesis , cell migration , and permeability by a specific inhibitor of PKCalpha .
Unusual in healthy individuals , their presence in elevated numbers often indicates substantial vascular endothelial perturbation .
In 1983 , Harold Dvorak and his colleagues were the first to show that tumor cells secreted vascular permeability factor ( VPF ) and that a blocking antibody to VPF could prevent the edema and fluid accumulation that is characteristic of human cancers .
Thalidomide [ alpha - ( N - phthalimido ) - glutarimide ] is known to be a potent inhibitor of angiogenesis , but the mechanism of its inhibitory action remains unclear .
30 and 50 micrograms / ml of U - 995 , when added to TNF alpha - induced angiogenesis caused discontinuous and disrupted blood vessels .
Requirement of estrogen receptor expression and function for [ 12Val ] K - Ras - mediated NIH3T3 cell transformation .
Possible mechanisms involved in sensitizing cells to a p53 - dependent apoptosis pathway in spite of the ability of T antigen to bind and inactivate the transcriptional transactivating activity of p53 are discussed .
Surprisingly , when injected into chicken embryos in the presence of helper virus , both viruses induced an erythroleukemia in about half of the animals .
Matrix metalloproteinases can collectively cleave all components of the extracellular matrix , with the endogenous tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 regulating their activity .
Our findings suggest with a reduction of steroid hormones following ovariectomy , alternatively activated macrophage markers ( Fizz1 and Ym1 ) were reduced , with this effect being reversed with the administration of estrogen or progesterone ; suggesting that with the reduction of steroid hormones macrophages are activated in a classical manner , promoting inflammation , whereas estrogen or progesterone are contributing toward macrophage activation in an alternative manner , driving wound repair , angiogenesis , and remodeling .
In this study , we retrospectively analyzed the coagulation function in patients with pancreatic carcinoma .
This effect was mediated , at least partly , through caspase activation .
Exposure to activated platelet membranes and to soluble proteins contained in activated platelet releasate both contributed to the observed increase in invasion .
Treatment with tunicamycin produced a 40 - 50 % inhibition of 2 - deoxyglucose uptake and this was associated with a 2 - 2 . 5 - fold decrease in transporter affinity for glucose ( Km ) without a change in Vmax .
Specifically , CLA was found to decrease the ability of mammary stromal cells to form complex anastomosing microcapillary networks in vitro on Engelbreth - Holm - Swarm - derived reconstituted basement membrane .
BACKGROUND : Recently , the desmoplastic reaction has been implicated as having an important function in epithelial solid tumor biology .
Ha - ras cells also show less binding of phorbol ester than control cells , suggesting that elevation of DG causes partial down - regulation in addition to activation of protein kinase C .
Most anti - angiogenic therapies for malignant gliomas are in Phase I / II trials and only modest efficacies are reported for monotherapies .
Activity of several transcriptional factors located downstream in the Akt pathway was also tested , and constitutive activation of adenosine 3 ' , 5 ' - monophosphate response element - binding protein ( CREB ) by ICAM - 3 was detected .
Since tumor cell - derived TSP - 1 has the potential to promote angiogenesis in the tumor microenvironment , it could be a potential target for breast cancer therapy .
Activation - induced cytidine deaminase in antibody diversification and chromosome translocation .
The tumor vascular network is the result of pro - angiogenic and inhibitory factors as well as of the interaction between endothelial cells and extracellular matrix .
HTPB disrupted F - actin dynamics via downregulating RhoA activity .
We investigated how inhibition of glucose metabolism could affect death receptor - mediated apoptosis in human tumor cells of diverse origin .
Tunicamycin - treatment resulted in 75 - 90 % inhibition in [ 3H ] mannose incorporation but only 20 - 25 % inhibition in [ 3H ] thymidine and [ 3H ] leucine incorporation .
At protein level , VEGF - B and C , Flt - 1 , and KDR were not detectable in tissue lysates , whereas VEGF - A was increased in stages III and IV .
Obesity is a common disorder and related diseases such as diabetes , atherosclerosis , hypertension , cardiovascular disease and cancer are a major cause of mortality and morbidity in Western - type societies .
We now report that a nearby residue , Thr - 495 , also appears to be phosphorylated .
There was also a statistically significant difference regarding fibrosis between groups 1 and 4 .
METHODS : Of the 456 eligible and analyzable patients ( parent cohort ) , adequate archival diagnostic tissue specimens from 108 patients were available for MDM2 analysis ( MDM2 cohort ) .
FVIIa markedly decreased the number of cells with apoptotic morphology and prevented the DNA degradation as measured by means of TdT - mediated dUTP nick end labeling ( TUNEL ) .
However , this modular protein core also binds with relatively high affinity to a number of growth factors and surface receptors , thereby stabilizing cell - matrix links .
These results suggest that Ve and OMP may be crucial heat - labile and protease - sensitive components of periodontal pathogens that enhance VEGF expression .
Highly metastatic tumors with beta - catenin stabilization are very similar to a subset of human melanomas .
Similar results were also obtained with respect to 5 - FU .
Daily i . v . injections of HAH - cortisol at doses causing no apparent toxicity retarded the growth of solid s . c .
Further , the inhibition of EGF binding by tumor promoters following long - term treatment of Swiss 3T3 cells with PDBu also varied with growth state .
Microtubule - binding drugs ( MBD ) are widely used in cancer chemotherapy and also have clinically relevant antiangiogenic and vascular - disrupting properties .
In all patients , a major and consistent induction of p53 target genes was seen .
Due to the low prevalence of hemangiopericytomas ( HPCs ) , data on the biophysiological characteristics of this tumor are rare .
The significance of the associations was determined using Spearman correlation analysis and the chi - square test .
Suppression of tumor growth by the 3 ' untranslated region of mel - 18 in 3Y1 cells transformed by the E6 and E7 genes of human papillomavirus type 18 .
Increased platelet counts and systemic coagulation activation are associated with ovarian cancer progression .
Also , the combination of docetaxel and ATRA might allow a reduction in docetaxel doses and by this way may diminish docetaxel adverse effects while maintaining the therapeutic effect in patients with HRPC .
This identifies a novel function of Evi - 1 as a member of corepressor complexes and suggests that aberrant recruitment of corepressors is one of the mechanisms involved in Evi - 1 - induced leukemogenesis .
Shear stress - induced transcriptional suppression of Tie1 is mediated by a negative shear stress response element , localized in a region of 250 bp within the promoter .
A pivotal role for p53 : balancing aerobic respiration and glycolysis .
Down - regulation of Mcl - 1 resulted in an increase in Mcl - 1 - free Bim , activation of Bax , and then signaling of mitochondria - mediated apoptosis .
Long - term peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) is associated with alterations in peritoneal permeability and loss of ultrafiltration .
Consequently , mitochondrial integrity is compromised , and the caspase - 9 - dependent cascade is activated in treated tumor cells .
3H - Cytosine arabinoside incorporation into the DNA was enhanced 1 . 33 - to 18 . 3 - fold over respective controls in 14 of 17 patients .
Disruption of Mitf blocked HGF - dependent increases in endogenous c - Met message and protein levels , indicating that HGF regulates its own receptor levels via Mitf .
Administration of 317615 x 2HCI orally twice daily to nude mice bearing subcutaneous MX - 1 tumors or SKOV - 3 tumors resulted in a decreased number of intratumoral vessels as determined by CD31 and CD105 staining with decreases of 35 % and 43 % in MX - 1 tumors and 60 % and 75 % in SKOV - 3 tumors , respectively .
The 3 - D organization of these extracellular components distinguishes the Surgisis mesh from synthetic materials and is associated with constructive tissue remodelling instead of scar tissue .
Expression of SPARC was significantly correlated with the expression of VEGF and MVD in colon cancer tissues .
To further elucidate the biological significance of WT1 in leukemic cell growth , we overexpressed exogenous WT1 in murine M1 myeloblastic leukemia cells using the isopropyl - beta - D - thiogalactoside ( IPTG ) - controlled expression system .
CONCLUSIONS : Thus , expression of the TrkA receptor itself inhibits p75 mediated apoptosis in NB cells .
RESULTS : The diagnostic sensitivity of this new immunocytochemical approach reached 100 % for the eight malignant mesotheliomas investigated .
Despite intensive investigations , the target genes of c - myb that are specifically involved in development of these myeloid lineage neoplasms are still unknown .
Activation of the myc gene may play a role in transformation by promoting growth of the cells bearing the rearranged chromosomes .
The malate - citrate cycle was studied during aerobic glycolysis and glutaminolysis in a strain of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells which showed a very low malate - aspartate shuttle system activity .
Mutation analysis of latent membrane protein 1 ( LMP1 ) in Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) - induced B - cell immortalization revealed two transformation effector sites , TES1 and TES2 .
At univariate analysis , overexpression of c - erbB2 did not affect either DFS or OAS ; tamoxifen had a greater effect on reducing the risk of recurrence than of death .
Furthermore , the expression levels of NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules , such as fibronectin , beta1 integrin , MMP - 1 , - 2 , - 9 , and - 14 , and VEGF - C , were upregulated in the highly metastatic cells .
Furthermore , LMP1 cooperates with a p16 - insensitive CDK4 ( R24C ) oncogene in transforming MEF cells .
Joint haemorrhage and subsequent haemophilic arthropathy are significant complications in haemophilia .
METHODS : Preoperative serum was collected from 107 gastric cancer patients and 33 normal controls .
We found a ser122 - pro mutation in the NME2 gene of metastatic IV Cl 1 cells .
Transformation of primary cells in cultures requires both overcoming growth arrest by stimulating the cell cycle and blocking cell death activities presumably activated by oncogene - mediated hyperproliferation signals .
Compared with control animals transfected with LacZ , site - specific transfection of phVEGF resulted in augmented collateral vessel development documented by serial angiography , and improvement in calf blood pressure ratio ( ischemic to normal limb ) , resting and maximum blood flow , and capillary to myocyte ratio .
Thrombin greatly potentiates vascular endothelial growth factor - ( VEGF - ) induced endothelial cell proliferation .
Cediranib ( RECENTIN ; AZD2171 ) is an inhibitor of VEGF signaling that has been shown in experimental models to prevent VEGF - A - induced angiogenesis and primary tumor growth , yet the effects of cediranib on VEGF receptor ( VEGFR ) - 3 - mediated endothelial cell function and lymphangiogenesis are unknown .
On strips of all widths , ECs tended to migrate in the direction of strips .
Since the intrinsic resistance of prostate carcinoma likely reflects a low susceptibility to drug - induced apoptosis , in this study we explored the possibility of sensitizing prostate carcinoma cells to apoptosis by combination of TRAIL with camptothecins .
Inhibition of Dll4 - mediated signaling induces proliferation of immature vessels and results in poor tissue perfusion .
METHODS : We used ribonuclease protection assays to analyze human colon tumors for the level of nm23 - H1 ( 43 samples ) and nm23 - H2 ( 41 samples ) transcript ( mRNA ) expression and the presence of mutations that could inactivate potential suppressor function .
However , re - expression of wt - p53 in EU - 4 cells could restore the doxorubicin - p53 - survivin pathway , resulting in significantly decreased survivin expression and increased apoptosis in these cells after doxorubicin treatment .
Finally , dominant - negative inhibition of Mitf resulted in profound resistance of melanocytes and melanoma cells to HGF - dependent matrix invasion , suggesting a physiologic role for this pathway in melanocytic development and melanoma .
Inhibition studies showed that adhesion of fibroblasts was mediated by several beta1 integrin receptors independent of the RGD and ECD recognition motif .
The p75 receptor of neurotrophins ( p75 ( NTR ) ) , which is scarcely present in healthy endothelial cells ( ECs ) , becomes strongly expressed by capillary ECs after induction of peripheral ischemia in type - 1 diabetic mice .
The inhibiting mutants , including the Rb binding site mutant , were able to promote a higher state of Rb phosphorylation than that observed in either normal cells or cytoplasmic - SVLT transformants .
Conditioned media from insulin - treated RPE cells were assayed for VEGF protein and capillary endothelial cell proliferation .
Oncostatin M ( OSM ) , an IL - 6 family cytokine responsible for STAT3 activation , has been implicated in cancer development , progression , invasion , and metastasis .
BACKGROUND : CDC4 / FBXW7 , encoding a ubiquitin ligase , maps to 4q32 and has been implicated as a tumor suppressor gene and therapeutic target in many tumor types .
CONCLUSIONS : VEGF - A ( 165 ) is one of the major angiogenesis regulators among the ligands ' family of VEGF , whereas its receptors KDR , and most probably Flt - 1 , may contribute to a poor prognosis ( angiogenic ) phenotype , as indicated by their upregulated MRNA levels in stage III neuroblastoma .
The relative resistance of PC - 3 cells to drug - induced apoptosis was associated with constitutive Akt activation , higher levels of cFLIP - L and Bcl - 2 , and lower levels of Bax .
These results suggest that the reduced APC protein level increases intestinal polyp multiplicity through quantitative stimulation of the beta - catenin / T - cell factor transcription .
Newly formed bone densities were also found to be higher in these 2 groups .
In a multivariate analysis , N - stage and vascular grade were not found to be independent prognostic factors , since they were strongly related to each other .
Osteonectin is one of the major non - collagenous proteins of bone .
The process of angiogenesis is also thought to occur in response to ischaemic conditions , which lie at the core of cardiovascular disease states such as coronary artery disease and congestive heart failure .
In normal gastric mucosa , C / EBPbeta expression was restricted to cells in the proliferative zone .
Effects of 4 - alkylmorpholine N - oxides on ATP - producing processes in Ehrlich ascites and L1210 leukaemia cells .
Similarly , mechanical overload - induced CCN1 gene expression in vivo was associated with nuclear localization of MRTF - A and enrichment of the CCN1 promoter with both MRTF - A and acetylated histone H3 .
A positive correlation between blood vessel volume and bone volume density was found in the younger new - bone area but not in the oldest new - bone area .
The second most prevalent urological malignancy in middle aged and elderly men is bladder cancer , with 90 % of the cases being transitional cell carcinomas .
CONCLUSION : Myofibroblasts represent an important prognostic factor for invasive growth that is translated into a poor clinical prognosis for patients with invasive breast cancer .
In this study , we hypothesized that ICAM - 3 has an additional effect on cancer cell migration and invasion because molecules induced by ICAM - 3 are known as regulators of cell migration and invasion .
Understanding molecular mechanisms regulating angiogenesis may lead to novel therapies for ischemic disorders .
After confirmation by immunocytochemical staining , their expression in patient samples was measured using 40 pairs of undifferentiated NPCs together with their adjacent normal epithelia .
To show that transcriptional activation of cyclin D1 is causally involved in the generation of B - cell neoplasia we have generated transgenic mice that carry a cyclin D1 gene under the transcriptional control of the E mu element .
In nonischemic hind limb tissues , allogeneic FM - MSC and BM - MSC injection were associated with a comparatively small amount of T lymphocyte infiltration , compared with the injection of allogeneic splenic lymphocytes .
Simultaneously as the growth rate decreased , the cellular uptake of glucose and the density of a class of glucose - reversible binding sites for cytochalasin B on the cell surface were also found to be reduced .
One such agent , 3 - bromopyruvate ( 3 - BrPA ) , a lactic acid analog , has been shown to inhibit both glycolytic and mitochondrial ATP production in rapidly growing cancers ( Ko et al . , Cancer Letts . , 173 , 83 - 91 , 2001 ) , leave normal cells alone , and eradicate advanced cancers ( 19 of 19 ) in a rodent model ( Ko et al . , Biochem . Biophys . Res . Commun . , 324 , 269 - 275 , 2004 ) .
The aim of this study was to address the role of pro - and anti - angiogenic molecules in diabetic retinopathy in the aqueous humor of the eye .
In colonic carcinoma specimens , the peritumoral vessels expressed a high density of somatostatin receptors , whereas the neoplastic tissue itself was receptor - negative in many cases .
Using c - FLIP anti - sense oligonucleotides to down - regulate c - FLIP we sensitized DU145 cells to CH - 11 - induced apoptosis .
Participation of p53 cellular tumour antigen in transformation of normal embryonic cells .
BACKGROUND : Abdominal surgery can lead to intra - abdominal adhesions with significant morbidity and mortality .
Inhibitors of Akt and P13 - kinase , the upstream activator of Akt , block endothelial cell migration and disrupt paxillin localization to the focal adhesions after stimulation with VEGF and S1P .
This was associated with a approximately 60 % reduction in tumor - derived blood vessels by quantitative morphometry of CD31 - stained tumor areas , and appearance of endothelial cell apoptosis by internucleosomal DNA fragmentation in vivo .
The expression of HLA - DR was correlated with the histologic type .
One additional event that appears to play a role in tumor progression is integration of HPV DNA into the host genome .
In this review , we discuss the reported involvement of syndecans in human cancers , infectious diseases , obesity , wound healing and angiogenesis .
Highly specialized cells , the thyrocytes , express a thyroid - specific set of genes for thyroglobulin ( Tg ) , thyroperoxidase , and the transcription factors TTF - 1 , TTF - 2 , and Pax - 8 .
The effects of IGF - 1 are mediated principally through the IGF - 1R but are modulated by complex interactions with multiple IGF binding proteins that themselves are regulated by phosphorylation , proteolysis , polymerization , and cell or matrix association .
Analyses of this sort may help to identify the cellular targets of pp60src whose phosphorylation is necessary for the increased glucose transport rate .
These results suggest that A5 - 1 will be a potent inhibitor of neovascularization .
TS expression of the primary oral cancer cells in the group with lymph node metastasis was higher than that of those without .
These results indicated that Hes genes cooperatively regulate intestinal development and homeostasis and raised the possibility that Hes1 is a promising target to induce the differentiation of tumor cells .
Cobalt chloride , a stimulator of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) stimulated angiogenesis initiation at 10 ( - 9 ) M in fat tissue and the HPVAM , but at 10 ( - 10 ) M blood vessel growth was stimulated only in the fat assay .
Using a construct containing the VEGF promoter linked to a luciferase reporter , we found that a mutation reducing HIF binding to the VEGF promoter had no significant effect on luciferase production induced by M - CSF stimulation .
Brn - 3a , a neuronal transcription factor of the POU gene family : indications for its involvement in cancer and angiogenesis .
Inhibitors of Hedgehog signaling have been the subject of intense research .
Mutants of TEL that removed a binding site for the mSin3A corepressor but retained the ETS domain failed to repress stromelysin - 1 .
VM - targeting strategies for ovarian cancer include anti - VEGF - a treatment , knocking down the EphA2 gene and using antibodies against human MMPs if the tumor is VM positive .
To sum up , our data suggest that the inhibition of metabolic pathways offers a novel and powerful therapeutic approach , which simultaneously inhibits tumor cell proliferation and tumor - induced angiogenesis .
Since both cell lines remained non - tumorigenic in nude mice , these properties indicate that they attained a premalignant phenotype .
Reconstitution of MCF - 7 cell extracts with procaspase - 3 corrects this defect , resulting in an efficient and complete processing of procaspase - 9 .
Stimulation of endothelial cell migration by vascular permeability factor / vascular endothelial growth factor through cooperative mechanisms involving the alphavbeta3 integrin , osteopontin , and thrombin .
Western blot analyses showed an increase in levels of activated caspases ( caspase - 3 and - 7 ) and of cleaved poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase ( PARP ) by magnolol .
Only 26 protein spots had a positive result , including annexin1 , S100A4 , and so on .
The tumour suppressor p53 and interferon - alpha and - beta ( IFN - alpha / beta ) are essential for the induction of apoptosis in cancerous cells and in antiviral immune responses , respectively , but little is known about their interrelationship .
Additionally , the angiogenic and lymphangiogenic profiles of the tumors were characterized .
These results show a remarkable selectivity of expression and function for laminin - 332 G45 in human SCC tumorigenesis and implicate it as a specific target for anticancer therapy .
This observed genomic instability will be of value in predicting the potential metastatic behavior of these aggressive pituitary tumors .
The aim of this study is to investigate ( 1 ) whether expression of COX - 2 and PPARgamma is associated with ovarian carcinogenesis and progression of ovarian tumours and ( 2 ) whether COX - 2 expression is controlled through ligand - mediated activation of PPARgamma in ovarian carcinoma cells .
Moreover , about 10 % of v - fos transformed cells transfected with vectors that express antisense junB mRNA acquired a non - transformed phenotype .
Patients whose tumors were CD40 - negative showed a significantly better N stage , overall stage at presentation and survival than those patients with CD40 - positive patients .
The role of p53 in pigmentation , tanning and melanoma .
This study was designed to evaluate the potential implication of stromelysin - 3 ( ST3 ) , a newly identified member of the matrix - degrading metalloproteinase family , and of BM - 40 / SPARC , a glycoprotein associated with the extracellular matrix , during the progression of human colorectal cancers .
Clusters of Glut - 4 - positive granule were observed in cells in six of the tumors .
Adult mutants became sterile males due to the meiotic arrest of spermatocytes , which then died by apoptosis , followed by neoplastic proliferation of gonad somatic cells that was similar to neoplasia observed in ageing dead end ( dnd ) - knockdown males , which lack germ cells .
All genes except those encoding angiotensinogen and epoxide hydrolase ( that were decreased ) , and 12 - lipoxygenase and vascular endothelial growth factor ( that showed no change ) , were significantly up - regulated in GK islets .
Whereas homogeneous and intense immunoreactivity were observed in large and intermediate size blood vessels , heterogeneity of expression was found in capillaries .
The aim of the present study was to clarify how expression of p53 protein participates in angiogenesis , and whether the coexpression of VEGF and p53 protein has a significance for angiogenesis and the clinicopathological features in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) .
Transformation of BHK hamster fibroblasts by an env - strain of Rous sarcoma virus ( RSV ) leads to the appearance at the cell surface of a virus - induced nonvirion antigen ( VCSA ) , specific for transformation , whose expression is controlled by the transforming src gene .
Rise in lactate concentrations over baseline levels in the first 30 minutes of the glucose tolerance test were significantly higher in dogs with lymphoma ( P = 0 . 011 ) .
Treatment involved intravitreal injection of bevacizumab ( 1 . 25 mg in 0 . 05 mL ) every 6 - 12 weeks .
Melissoidesin G , a diterpenoid purified from Isodon melissoides , induces leukemic - cell apoptosis through induction of redox imbalance and exhibits synergy with other anticancer agents .
EPOX inhibits angiogenesis by degradation of Mcl - 1 through ERK inactivation .
RESULTS : Overexpression of MDM2 by manual counts was seen in 44 % ( n = 47 ) of the patients .
Endothelial cells bound fluorescein - labeled collagen I fibrils , an interaction specifically inhibited by SMI496 .
Expression of TSP - 1 is up - regulated by the tumor suppressor gene , p53 , and down - regulated by oncogenes such as Myc and Ras .
We will demonstrate here that the level of the natural ocular anti - angiogenic agent PEDF is inversely associated with proliferative retinopathy .
This difference in invasiveness was not caused by differences in gelatinase production , which was constant within each group of transfectants .
The more pronounced effects of Bmi - 1 over - expression in culture were largely attributable to the attenuated induction of p16 ( Ink4a ) and p19 ( Arf ) in culture , proteins that are generally not expressed by neural stem / progenitor cells in young mice in vivo .
14 - 3 - 3zeta might be used as prognostic biomarkers for NSCLC .
Since the prognosis of locally advanced and metastatic diseases is poor , increased understanding of the pathogenesis of NPC would be important for discovering novel markers for patients ' management .
Our data suggest for the first time that S727 phosphorylation is sufficient to activate Stat3 , thereby driving prostate tumorigenesis independent of Y705 phosphorylation .
When used appropriately , and with adequate patient education regarding photosensitivity , the risk - benefit of verteporfin for the medical treatment of neovascular AMD is favourable .
Induction of this DNA - binding activity was accompanied by tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat3 and correlated with Src transformation .
We now show that c - MYC overexpression is sufficient to rescue proliferation and to release the differentiation block imposed by Runx2 .
This study investigated the expression of TS and DPD in cervical lymph node metastases and its relationship with primary OSCC , as well as the interaction between these enzymes and Kangai 1 ( KAI1 / CD82 ) which is a metastasis suppressor protein .
METHODS : Patients diagnosed with chronic CSC , with clinical evidence of activity and treated with Photodynamic Therapy , are included in this report .
The greatest potential for angiogenesis inhibitors may lie in their ability to combine safely with chemotherapy and radiotherapy .
Due to the importance of this pathway , it is clear that p53 disruptions may relate directly to a patient ' s prognosis .
This process is necessary for the growth and metastasis of tumors , and considerable effort is being expended to find inhibitors of tumor angiogenesis .
In mice , xenografts of human glioblastoma U87MG , which has decreased expression of ING4 , grow significantly faster and have higher vascular volume fractions than control tumours .
A key role for the integrin alpha2beta1 in experimental and developmental angiogenesis .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , a recently identified growth factor with significant angiogenic properties , may be a major tumor angiogenesis regulator .
1 - Tetradecylpyrrolidine N - oxide ( TPNO ) , one of the most active compounds , immediately after addition to the suspension of Ehrlich cells in an ice bath , decreased the level of ATP to the same extent over the whole concentration range .
Oxygen metabolism has an important role in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis .
VEGF regulates angiogenesis , which is also a fundamental event in the process of tumor growth and metastatic dissemination .
Inhibition of the mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) by rapamycin increases chemosensitivity of CaSki cells to paclitaxel .
Yet , the net outcome of Ang - 2 functions on tumor angiogenesis is believed to be contextual depending on the local cytokine milieu .
The candidate tumour suppressor protein ING4 regulates brain tumour growth and angiogenesis .
Rofecoxib as adjunctive therapy for haemophilic arthropathy .
Treatment of these T - cells with 5 - azacytidine resulted in the induction of DR surface antigen expression , the appearance of DR alpha mRNA , and the partial demethylation of the DR alpha DNA sequences .
These findings advance our understanding of the functions of N - myc in neuroblastoma cells .
Severe degeneration of the intestinal mucosa , liver parenchyma , and glomerular and tubular epithelium observed in the saline - treated MTX group was improved by L - Car treatment .
Given that AR - mediated gene regulation is enhanced by AR coregulators , inactivation of those coregulators is emerging as a promising therapy for prostate cancer ( PCa ) .
At other times , both the metastases and the primary tumor may spontaneously regress without treatment .
The tumors of A431 supplemented with F - 2 cells were profoundly vascularized throughout by the tubular structures formed by F - 2 cells , the lumen of which contained the host rat blood cells .
The expression of VEGF and p53 protein in these SCC was examined immunohistochemically .
p24 family type 1 transmembrane proteins are required for insulin biosynthesis and secretion in pancreatic beta - cells .
Transcriptional and post - translation regulation of the Tie1 receptor by fluid shear stress changes in vascular endothelial cells .
35 % of eyes improved their BCVA by 2 lines or more , 45 % remained stable and 18 % lost 2 lines or more .
The additional function of Pten as a dual - specificity protein phosphatase may also play a role in glioma pathogenesis .
CONCLUSION : These data delineate an ERK - and Sp1 - dependent mechanism of M - CSF induced VEGF production and demonstrate for the first time the ability of M - CSF to induce angiogenesis via VEGF in vivo .
In the pathologic analysis of the abdominal wounds , there was no statistically significant difference between any of the groups , including the control group , regarding inflammation .
Here , we show that the proto - oncogene N - myc promoter was down - regulated by WT1 in transient transfection assays .
Both the erbA IRES and the erbA / myb IRES virus constructs transformed erythroid cells after infection of bone marrow or blastoderm cultures .
Recently , it has become apparent that microRNAs ( miRNAs ) also contribute to EBV ' s oncogenic properties ; recombinant EBVs that lack the BHRF1 miRNA cluster display a reduced ability to transform B lymphocytes in vitro .
p75 mediated apoptosis in neuroblastoma cells is inhibited by expression of TrkA .
Then , we demonstrated a mitochondrial membrane potential disruption followed by cytochrome c release that indicates the involvement of mitochondria in this apoptotic signaling pathway .
mRNA expression levels of angiogenesis stimulators and inhibitors were determined by quantitative RT - PCR .
As such , sustained nuclear FOXO3a expression in breast cancer may culminate in cancer progression and the development of an aggressive phenotype similar to that observed in cytotoxic chemotherapy resistant breast cancer cell models .
After 4 days , these cells are harvested and cytospins made for immunostaining .
GM - CSF and IL - 2 vaccine therapy and pretreatment with gammaIFN represent effective strategies in reducing hepatic tumor .
Vasodilator - stimulated phosphoprotein is involved in stress - fiber and membrane ruffle formation in endothelial cells .
Furthermore , the Runx2 / MYC combination overcomes the requirement for genetic inactivation of the p53 pathway in vivo .
An important role of proprotein convertases in tumorigenic processes has been suggested by various studies .
In addition to direct effects on mammary epithelial cells , including decreased proliferation and induction of apoptosis , CLA may exert its effects indirectly by inhibiting the differentiation of mammary stromal cells to an endothelial cell type .
This was due primarily to restoring polarity : forced proliferation of polarized , nonmalignant cells did not induce VEGF expression and EC recruitment , whereas disrupting the architecture of growth - arrested , reverted cells did .
A small peptide derived from Flt - 1 ( VEGFR - 1 ) functions as an angiogenic inhibitor .
METHOD : Wild - type and phosphatase - inactive ( C124A ) PTEN plasmids were transfected into ovarian epithelial cancer A2780 cells , and their effects on cell apoptosis , cell proliferation , cell migration and cell invasion were analyzed by flow cytometry analysis , TUNEL assay , MTT assay , wound - healing assay and transwell assay .
Specimens of NSCLC and adjacent normal lung tissues were collected from 110 patients .
AIMS : As one of the five lactate dehydrogenase ( LDH ) isoenzymes , LDH5 has the highest efficiency to catalyze pyruvate transformation to lactate .
Simultaneous and continuous exposure of HT - 29 and HMVEC - d cells to low concentrations SN - 38 + L - OHP + 5 - FU for 144 h showed a strong antagonism and an unfavorable dose - reduction index .
Somatic cell hybrids between LTA and NIH 3T3 cells are tumorigenic , metastatic and ras - responsive .
Wnt signaling plays a critical role in regulating stem / progenitor cells in the mammary gland as well as other tissue compartments .
Juice and peels , for example , possess potent antioxidant properties , while juice , peel and oil are all weakly estrogenic and heuristically of interest for the treatment of menopausal symptoms and sequellae .
SPARC maybe involved in the regulation of anti - angiogenesis by which it may serve as a novel target for colon cancer treatment as well as a novel distinctive marker .
Results were compared to findings in a control group .
The caprine placenta is usually considered to have increased interhemal distance compared with endotheliochorial and hemochorial types : our results suggest that the very extensive development of sinusoids and crypts may compensate for any negative consequences of the placental architecture .
Runx2 and MYC collaborate in lymphoma development by suppressing apoptotic and growth arrest pathways in vivo .
In immunohistochemical analysis , rk - 2 reduced expression of vascular endothelial growth factor , which is a potent angiogenic activator and neovascularization in the mouse lung .
Interestingly , in CaSki cells , which were more suggestive of a resistant phenotype , paclitaxel induced the activation of mTOR as a downstream target of Akt .
Targeting tumour pericytes is a promising anti - angiogenic therapy but requires identifying the mechanisms of their recruitment in tumour and addressing whether these mechanisms can be selectively harnessed .
Preliminary data suggest that TnI may be competing with bFGF for interaction with the bFGF receptor on responsive cells .
The frequent expression of cytolytic effector markers in the CD2 + surface CD3 - CD56 + putative NK - cell lymphomas lends further support to their probable NK cell origin .
Although some recent reports suggest that microvessel counts in non - small cell lung cancer are related to a poor disease outcome , the results were not conclusive and were not compared with other molecular prognostic markers .
Modulation of invasion within such systems is ascribed to balances between promoter and suppressor pathways .
Furthermore , ARD1 interacted physically with and acetylated the AR protein in vivo and in vitro .
Desensitization of prostaglandin F2 alpha - stimulated inositol phosphate generation in NIH - 3T3 fibroblasts transformed by overexpression of normal c - Ha - ras - 1 , c - Ki - ras - 2 and c - N - ras genes .
18F - FDG and 123I - IMT uptake was quantified as ratios between the uptake by the tumour and contralateral regions of reference .
There was also an up - regulation of Bax , which altered the Bax : Bcl - 2 ratio , which may be responsible for mitochondrial depolarization reported to be involved prior to the induction of apoptosis .
Alpha - melanocyte - stimulating hormone ( alpha - MSH ) has evolved as a mediator of diverse biological activities in an ever - growing number of non - melanocytic cell types .
Capillary cell migration and proliferation are proposed as sensitive quantifiable bioassays to explore the functional domains of the EGF molecule .
Transcutaneous measurements of tissue pO2 showed elevation from 20 + / - 10 mm Hg during air breathing to 643 + / - 242 mm Hg while breathing pure oxygen at 2 . 5 ATA .
Although PTHrP is frequently expressed by breast tumors and other solid cancers , its effects on tumor progression are unclear .
Six patients ( 46 % ) had a clinical response .
The roles of miscrovascularity density ( MVD ) and VEGF expression in the progression of oral squamous cell carcinoma ( OSCC ) have been controversial .
Whereas the ligands were increased in stages III and IV , the receptors were upregulated in stage III only .
Lactate - dehydrogenase 5 is overexpressed in non - small cell lung cancer and correlates with the expression of the transketolase - like protein 1 .
c - myb is a frequent target of retroviral insertional mutagenesis in murine leukemia virus - induced myeloid leukemia .
Exposure of wild - type primary mouse cerebral endothelial cells to the CD47 ligand thrombospondin 1 ( TSP - 1 ) induced an increasing amount of cell death , whereas cytotoxicity was significantly decreased in cerebral endothelial cells derived from CD47 knockout mice .
Comparison between cells revealed different apoptosis kinetics : accumulation of cells in sub - G1 phase and poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase cleavage occurred earlier in LoVo - mycANS .
Regulation of the Warburg effect in early - passage breast cancer cells .
These chemicals differ from the direct - acting mutagens tested previously .
These parameters were correlated with histology to obtain a radiological - histological map of tumour microvasculature .
BACKGROUND : Neurotrophins mediate their effects by binding to members of the Trk family of receptor tyrosine kinases and to the low - affinity nerve growth factor receptor p75 .
Rat 6 cells are not transformed by treatment with the well - known carcinogens benzo [ a ] pyrene ( BP ) or N - methyl - N - nitro - N ' - nitrosoguanidine ( MNNG ) .
The cells subsequently proliferate and differentiate to form endothelial tubes and capillary - like structures .
They establish cyclin D1 as a proto - oncogene whose activity appears to depend on a specific cell type as well as on a specific cooperating partner and link disturbances in the regulation of cell cycle progression to the development of human malignancies .
In the mammary carcinoma experiment , vascular permeability measured by means of B22956 / 1 in the animals treated with the antiangiogenic drug ( 0 . 0043317 + / - 0 . 0040418 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) ) was significantly less than in untreated animals ( 0 . 0090460 + / - 0 . 0043680 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) ) , whereas no significant difference was observed with Gd - DTPA - albumin ( 13 . 14 + / - 13 . 94 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) in treated animals and 18 . 07 + / - 11 . 92 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) in untreated animals ) .
Together , these studies define a novel p53 - survivin signaling pathway activated by DNA damage that results in down - regulation of survivin , cell cycle arrest , and apoptosis .
There was also a direct correlation between the presence of choroidal neovascularization and size of the PED ( P = 0 . 03 ) .
These results may have chemotherapeutic implications for using emodin to target HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing cancer cells .
Nonidet P - 40 had no effect on glycolysis in cell - free extracts from Ehrlich ascites tumor cells to which soluble mitochondrial ATPase was added .
In cultured cells , this molecule is physically associated with focal adhesions , which are well - defined regions of intimate cell - to - substratum adhesion .
Also , rk - 2 diminished the expression of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 in the mouse lung which induces tumor metastasis and angiogenesis .
The amount of conjugated amine group onto the microspheres was 1 . 93 + / - 0 . 01 nmol / mg - microspheres , while the amount of heparin was 95 . 8 pmol / mg - microspheres .
CONCLUSION : The Fas - FasL - mediated apoptosis pathway may contribute to the IL - 12 - induced rejection of prostate carcinoma .
Primary human keratinocytes lacking G45 ( DeltaG45 ) showed alterations of basal receptor organization , impaired matrix deposition , and increased migration .
Plasmid DNA encoding each of the three principal human VEGF isoforms ( phVEGF121 , phVEGF165 , or phVEGF189 ) was applied to the hydrogel polymer coating of an angioplasty balloon and delivered percutaneously to one iliac artery of rabbits with operatively induced hindlimb ischemia .
Nuclear factor - kappaB ( NF - kappaB ) activation contributes to the development of metastasis , thus leading to a poor prognosis in many cancers , including OSCC .
The therapeutic efficacy of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS was determined by monitoring tumor volume , survival rate , and degree of neovascularization after treatment in these models .
Molecular mediators of interactions with extracellular matrix components in metastasis and angiogenesis .
METHODS : We quantified expression of MCT isoforms in human glioblastoma multiforme and glioma - derived cells lines by Western blot analysis .
Infection of human or murine cells with murine leukemia viruses rapidly increases the expression of a number of genes that belong to the immunoglobulin superfamily and are involved in T - lymphocyte activation , including the class I major histocompatibility complex antigens .
In the present study , we performed a series of molecular imaging experiments using a HIF - 1 - dependent reporter gene , 5HREp - ODD - luc , and found an essential role of the Akt / mTOR pathway .
TF is involved in cell migration , embryogenesis and angiogenesis .
We have previously mapped phosphorylation sites near the carboxy terminus of the E1B - 55kDa protein at Ser - 490 and Ser - 491 , which lie within casein kinase II consensus sequences .
At week 4 , however , the sinusoidal blood volume and albumin Disse space in tumor - bearing livers were slightly lower compared with those of shams .
The resultant foci contain cells of a markedly altered morphology which produce high levels of p53 .
The most common genetic alterations found in a wide variety of cancers are p53 tumor suppressor gene mutations .
We situate invasion within microecosystems comprising neoplastic cells as well as host cells .
Altogether , these results suggest a new approach to promote angiogenesis by controlling Notch signaling , and may provide new options to treat patients with diseases that diminish angiogenic responsiveness .
After 21 days , the serum concentration of nitrite , capillary density and expression of HIF1alpha were determined .
PURPOSE : The aim of this study was to investigate the use of D2 - 40 for the detection of lymphovascular invasion ( LVI ) in node positive and negative early breast cancer .
The short - term response of Swiss 3T3 cells to an activator of protein kinase C also appeared to be independent of growth state , since the 50 % effective dose for PDBu inhibition of EGF binding to its receptor was approximately 7 nM for both growth conditions .
Epidermal growth factor ( EGF ) binds with high affinity and specificity to a single site on the external domain of its transmembrane receptor to activate the tyrosine protein kinase activity of its cytoplasmic portion .
Tumor volume and total hemoglobin in allograft mice treated with 50 mg / kg DATS were significantly smaller than that in the control group .
Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest is found at the end of this article .
Hedgehog signaling : networking to nurture a promalignant tumor microenvironment .
Roles of cell adhesion molecules in tumor angiogenesis induced by cotransplantation of cancer and endothelial cells to nude rats .
N - myc is coexpressed with WT1 in the developing kidney and is overexpressed in many Wilms ' tumors .
Indeed , in the reported cases it was possible to vacuum dry and reconstitute the proteins without any aggregation or loss in protein and biological activity .
Thus , angiogenesis is a physiologic event in normal postnatal murine skin , apparently is dictated by the hair follicle , and appears to be required for normal anagen development .
Four drugs with potential anti - peritumoral brain edema activity were studied using the VX2 rabbit brain tumor model .
Atypically , abundant capillaries were observed ; however , the cystic proliferation of epithelioid cells with vacuoles and immunohistochemical profile of the epithelioid element were consistent with hepatic adenomatoid tumour .
Our results leave unexplained the observation that nm23 - H1 allelic deletion correlates with metastatic potential of colon carcinomas .
The transfer of apoptosis genes to tumors constitutes one of the most promising strategies for cancer gene therapy .
We further show that in extracts from caspase - 3 - deficient MCF - 7 cells , procaspase - 9 processing is strongly impaired after stimulation with either cytochrome c or recombinant caspase - 8 .
Cytokines play an important role in creating an inflammatory microenvironment , which is now considered a hallmark of cancer .
Results from the present investigation reveal that cultured primary skin fibroblasts cease to proliferate once they reach confluence ; these cells are thus contact inhibited in vitro .
Pigmented regions were positive for an epithelial marker , cytokeratin .
In order to understand the underlying mechanism by which TSC phenolic fraction potentiates BPDE - induced tumorigenicity , we examined its effect on the activation of two transcription factors AP - 1 and NF - kappaB which are known to be influenced by established tumor promoter TPA .
Analysis of associations among studied proteins revealed positive correlation between Bcl - xL and Bax in primary tumors ( P < 0 . 03 , r = 0 . 307 ) .
RAGE ( receptor for AGE ) is the best characterized signal transduction receptor for AGEs and is expressed on mesothelial cells .
These enzymes and their physiologic inhibitors , the tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases ( TIMPs ) , act in a coordinated manner to form an integrated system .
The soluble factors they release in its presence arrest the cycle of endothelial cells ( EC ) , inhibit in vitro angiogenesis , negatively modulate the production of matrix metalloproteinase - 9 , and the ability of EC to adhere to vitronectin and up - regulate ICAM - 1 and VCAM - 1 expression .
However , there was no difference in expression of TSP - 2 and CD36 mRNA in these samples .
Tumors of the retinal pigment epithelium metastasize to inguinal lymph nodes and spleen in tyrosinase - related protein 1 / SV40 T antigen transgenic mice .
In recent years , investigating the metabolic changes within cancer cells has been a rapidly growing area .
The beneficial effect of IL - 1Ra on most islet endothelial / OS / immune cells / fibrosis parameters analyzed highlights a major endothelial - related role for IL - 1 in GK islet alterations .
This work is again extremely significant for patients worldwide , as Dvorak ' s scientific research is leading his colleagues all over the world to examine how to treat a tumor through its blood supply .
These transcripts were localized in stromal fibroblasts adjacent to the neoplastic foci .
The role of p53 in glucose metabolism .
Targeted down - regulation of PIM - 2 by RNA interference ( RNAi ) selectively abrogated survival of Ba / F3 cells transformed by various Fms - like tyrosine kinase 3 ( FLT3 ) - activating mutants [ internal tandem duplication ( ITD ) and kinase domain ] and attenuated growth of human cell lines containing FLT3 mutations .
Thus , metabolically - altered islet endothelium might affect the beta - cell microenvironment and contribute to progressive type 2 diabetic beta - cell dysfunction in GK rats .
Assays used to screen for BRAF mutations in the clinic should be robust enough to detect the p . Val600Lys mutation , as this may have therapeutic implications .
The latter phenomenon was accompanied by an increase in the mdr - 1 mRNA expression , cellular glutathione level , and glutathione S - transferase activity .
Highly metastatic GSAS / N3 and N5 cells showed an enhanced NF - kappaB activity , thus contributing to increased migration , invasion , and a poor prognosis compared with the parent cells .
LPA downregulates TIMP3 , which may have targets other than metalloproteinases .
Malate - citrate cycle during glycolysis and glutaminolysis in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells .
This enhanced glycolysis was partly sensitive to rutamycin and partly sensitive to ouabain , suggesting that the detergent released the control of the ATPase of the mitochondria and of the plasma membrane Na + K + - ATPase .
The samples were transferred to Kyushu University Hospital ( Beppu , Japan ) where they were analyzed by quantitative real - time reverse transcription - PCR for three epithelial cell markers , carcinoembryonic antigen , cytokeratin - 19 , and cytokeratin - 7 , as well as VEGFR - 1 .
Absent staining of beta - catenin was associated with lymph node metastasis .
Together these findings establish Wnt signaling as a metastasis regulator in melanoma .
The cytostatic drug doxorubicin is a well - known chemotherapeutic agent which is used in treatment of a wide variety of cancers .
Combination therapy targets both lymphocytes and macrophages , and is more effective in reducing tumor than either therapy alone .
This suggests that the repression of the N - myc promoter is mediated through the WT1 binding sites .
There is considerable debate concerning where in the cell Notch functions and what proteins serve as effectors of the Notch signal .
Suppressing PTTG expression by siRNA decreased cell motility in both PTTG - HA / EC9706 and KYSE150 cells .
Application of clonal analysis .
Southern blotting and probing with PCR - synthesized cDNA fragments of the mouse 72 kDa type IV collagenase gene showed that this gene was present in all cells although the structure of this gene in one of the three LTA cell lines differed from that of the other cells .
Stimulatory effects on proliferation and migration of human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVEC ) characterized the angiogenic properties of oral cancer cells but not normal oral keratinocytes ( NOK ) .
Patients had primarily relapsed diffuse large B - cell lymphoma ( 63 % ) were heavily pretreated ( median of three regimens ) and high risk ( 79 % international prognostic index , greater than or = 2 ) and 34 % were relapsed after autologous stem cell transplant .
Troponin I inhibits capillary endothelial cell proliferation by interaction with the cell ' s bFGF receptor .
The functional benefit of cell transplantation after a myocardial infarction is diminished by early cell losses .
The effects of these alterations in placental functional development appear to be irreversible .
Here , we show that natural and synthetic progestins also induce thrombospondin - 1 ( TSP - 1 ) mRNA and protein in T47 - D and BT - 474 breast cancer cells .
A marked coronary angiogenesis is known to occur with chronic bradycardia .
As chicken embryo fibroblasts are devoid of EGF receptors , their activity is not potentiated by EGF .
Recently , it was shown that Stat3 is activated through novel and noncanonical mechanisms , including phosphorylation at S727 .
Cells transformed by Rous sarcoma virus release transforming growth factors .
The largely restricted CCL16 expression in the liver suggests that this chemokine may play a role in hepatic vascular formation during development and in angiogenesis associated to hepatic diseases .
Presence of blood vessels was confirmed with histology and electron microscopy .
The conclusion most consistent with the data is that the two MSRs are overlapping , spliced RNAs .
To evaluate the biological significance of M - CSF induced VEGF production , we used an in vivo angiogenesis model to illustrate the ability of M - CSF to recruit mononuclear phagocytes , increase VEGF levels , and enhance angiogenesis .
KISS1 transcript expression was also associated with histopathological tumor stage ( P < 0 . 0005 ) .
This was markedly suppressed upon simultaneous injection of anti - VEGF polyclonal antibodies with the supernatant .
The effects of radiation on neovascularization in a rat model .
This induction of Ets - 1 may be relevant for reendothelialization by regulating the expression of certain genes .
During 8 days of culture under 5 % O ( 2 ) , but not room air , the addition of FGF2 to explants stimulated the formation of Gs - IB ( 4 - ) positive , CD31 - positive , and Flk - 1 - positive microvessels in a concentration - dependent manner .
The mice were treated by intratumoral injection of 2 x 10 ( 9 ) pfu Ad - mEndostatin .
The frequency of COX - 2 and PPARgamma detection was significantly increased and decreased as lesions progressed to carcinoma , respectively .
Pancreatic endocrine tumors : expression profiling evidences a role for AKT - mTOR pathway .
Possible translation of our knowledge to cancer therapeutics will also be discussed .
IL - 1Ra also improved islet vascularization , reduced fibrosis and ameliorated glycemia .
Oxygen consumption of HepG2 cells supported by either pyruvate / malate or succinate was inhibited when cells were pre - incubated with 3 - BrPA in glucose - free medium .
RESULTS : All patients completed therapy and tolerability was good .
Because of the imperfect association of nuclear grade and ECP % or MVD , CC - RCC was also grouped based on low / high MVD and ECP % .
[ Expression and mutation of c - kit gene in gastrointestinal stromal tumor ] .
Integration of HPV DNA frequently disrupts the E2 open reading frames , resulting in overexpression of the E6 and E7 oncoproteins and possibly causing genomic instability .
These results suggest that doxorubicin is able to induce cell death by apoptosis only at particular dose and treatment conditions and imply a completely different cellular response following bolus or continuous exposure to doxorubicin .
Ultraviolet B irradiation promotes tumorigenic and metastatic properties in primary cutaneous melanoma via induction of interleukin 8 .
Although , the growth of all three cell lines was suppressed by DMI , it was more effective in Ca3 / 7 cells .
These findings indicate that TS and CD82 may be of great value in assessing lymph node metastasis of OSCC , and could be taken as new targets for therapy of metastatic OSCC .
Malignant cells often display defects in autophagy , an evolutionarily conserved pathway for degrading long - lived proteins and cytoplasmic organelles .
We propose that cytolytic effector and related proteins produced by putative NK and some CD8 + CD56 + postthymic T - cell lymphomas , probably in conjunction with other mechanisms , may effect massive tumor cell apoptosis .
Further investigations of this pathway with regard to preventing peritoneal fibrosis should be performed to maintain the integrity of the peritoneal membrane in peritoneal dialysis patients .
An assay to measure angiogenesis in human fat tissue .
Unirradiated animals showed equal neovascularization of both implants .
A prefabricated composite fat flap consisting of muscle woven into an anatomically distinct fat pad was studied in a rabbit model .
RESULTS : Bevacizumab treatment was followed by reductions in retinal hemorrhage , exudation , and edema .
Here , we showed that proapoptotic activity of HDACi was robustly enhanced by E1A in multiple cancer cells , but not in normal cells .
CONCLUSION : Together , our findings suggest that RASSF1C , unlike RASSF1A , is not a tumor suppressor , but instead may play a role in stimulating metastasis and survival in breast cancer cells .
T140 analogs as CXCR4 antagonists identified as anti - metastatic agents in the treatment of breast cancer .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the effect of vascular bundle implantation in autogenous bone graft on angiogenesis .
CONCLUSION : Immunostaining with D2 - 40 significantly increased the frequency of detection of lymphatic invasion compared to conventional H . E . - staining in early breast cancer .
Activation of vascular endothelial growth factor through reactive oxygen species mediates 20 - hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid - induced endothelial cell proliferation .
The polyester prostheses utilized were polyester flat ( PF ) and polyester soft three - dimensional ( PS ) ; the PP mesh utilized was Marlex .
In a three - dimensional model of breast carcinogenesis , disorganized , proliferative transformed breast epithelial cells express significantly higher expression of angiogenic genes compared with their polarized , growth - arrested nonmalignant counterparts .
Several enzyme systems have been implicated in the metastatic process , but the metalloproteinases ( MPs ) appear to be the major group involved in most instances of neoplastic invasion .
Recent studies on factors involved in tumor vascular development have identified new therapeutic targets for inhibiting tumor neovascularization and thus tumor progression .
These experiments demonstrate that direct interactions between breast cancer and stromal or osteoblastic cells induce osteoclastogenesis in vitro through modulating RANKL expression .
In juvenile brca2 mutants , oocytes failed to progress through meiosis , leading to female - to - male sex reversal .
CONCLUSION : The transfection of LMP1 can increase the expression of MMP - 9 in CNE1 cells .
In the high - level group the authors found typical DNA ladder eletrophoresis stripe .
The mean baseline calcitonin level correlated with the histologic findings ( r = 0 . 71 , P = 0 . 003 ) but there was no correlation between pentagastrin - stimulated calcitonin levels and histology ( r = 0 . 21 , P = 0 . 47 ) .
Media supplemented with and without 10 % Oxygent were compared in all assessments .
Role of the fibrinolytic and matrix metalloproteinase systems in development of adipose tissue .
Use of iodine - 123 - alpha - methyl tyrosine ( 123I - IMT ) allows investigation of the amino acid transport rate in gliomas .
Collectively , our results suggest that the loss of SEMA3 expression could be a hallmark of cancer progression .
Role of stromal myofibroblasts in invasive breast cancer : stromal expression of alpha - smooth muscle actin correlates with worse clinical outcome .
When injected in human breast cancer xenografts , pAd - T34A inhibited growth of established tumors and triggered tumor cell apoptosis in vivo .
At 3 weeks , the endogenous blood supply of both the control and the experimental fat pads was isolated and ligated , and the composite fat / muscle flap was transferred to the chest wall .
UK infusion prior to 5 - fluorouracil increased tissue concentration of antitumor agent .
However , its role in tumor - associated lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic metastasis remains unclear .
Cell invasion and apoptosis assays were also performed .
One week later , IGF - 1 - transfected SMCs had increased myocardial IGF - 1 and VEGF levels , increased Bcl2 expression , limited cell apoptosis , and enhanced vessel formation in the myocardial scar compared with the two control groups ( P less than 0 . 05 for all groups ) .
These cells were negative for Hep par - 1 , carcinoembryonic antigen , neural cell adhesion molecule , CD34 , CD31 and HMB45 .
Furthermore , gonadotropin - and / or estrogen - mediated maintenance of SEMA3 expression could control ovarian cancer angiogenesis and metastasis .
At the commencement of the study , 29 patients were in chronic phase ( CP ) , 25 in an accelerated phase ( AP ) , and 31 in the blast crisis ( BC ) .
The heterogeneity of nm23 - H1 gene product expression between primary cancers and metastatic lymph nodes was observed in 41 . 3 % .
Commonality exists in the processes involved in vasculature development between tissues whether healthy or diseased .
We reported earlier on the oncogenic properties of Grm1 by demonstrating that stable Grm1 - mouse - melanocytic clones proliferate in the absence of growth supplement and anchorage in vitro .
However , the mechanism ( s ) by which ciprofloxacin elicits its biological effects on bladder cancer cells is not well documented .
RESULTS : There was a statistically significant difference between the control and enoxaparine Na groups regarding adhesions .
Western blot analysis demonstrated a > 2 . 5 - fold increase in Fas protein expression , as well as elevation of the active forms of both caspase - 8 and caspase - 3 .
Phosphatase and tension homolog deleted on chromosome 10 ( PTEN ) , a tumor suppressor , is frequently deficient in various pathologies due to mutation or epigenetic alterations .
Targeting PIM kinases impairs survival of hematopoietic cells transformed by kinase inhibitor - sensitive and kinase inhibitor - resistant forms of Fms - like tyrosine kinase 3 and BCR / ABL .
Until recently , their role in pathogenesis was largely unexplored .
An immunohistochemical score based on the intensity of immunoreactivity and proportion of immunoreactive cells was established for each MMP and TIMP .
Notably , ARD1 was critical for transcriptionally regulating a number of AR target genes that are involved in prostate tumorigenesis .
Furthermore , infected cells evince a marked upregulation of the EBNA genes .
Reporter gene analyses with a series of nested deletion mutants of the hepatoma type II hexokinase promoter show that a significant fraction of the total activation observed under hypoxic conditions localizes to the distal region where the overlapping HIF - 1 / E - box sequences are located .
In conclusion , CXCR4 expression is associated with gastric cancer cell migration in vitro , and strong expression of CXCR4 by gastric cancer cells is significantly associated with lymphatic metastasis in patients with gastric cancer , suggesting that CXCR4 plays an important role during gastric cancer progression .
Converging studies from many investigators indicate that RUNX1 has a critical role in the correct maintenance of essential cellular functions during embryonic development and after birth .
Disease - free ( DFS ) and overall ( OAS ) survival curves were estimated by the Kaplan - Meier method .
However , how the tumor suppressive functions of p53 become concerted with the extracellular cues arriving at the cell surface during tissue homeostasis , remains largely unknown .
Members of the Runx and MYC families have been implicated as collaborating oncogenes .
Hemostasis and mechanism of action of selective antimetastatic drugs in mice bearing Lewis lung carcinoma .
At present , the percentage of such a modification is low , unless referred to selected series of tumours .
These results suggest that the role of mast cells in angiogenesis may be to enhance migration of the endothelial cells of growing capillaries .
The other induced genes revealed a whole set of biologically meaningful genes related to macrophage activation and TH1 immune response .
Subcellular localisation of BAG - 1 and its regulation of vitamin D receptor - mediated transactivation and involucrin expression in oral keratinocytes : implications for oral carcinogenesis .
The WNT / TCF target genes HOXB9 and LEF1 are identified as mediators of chemotactic invasion and colony outgrowth .
The central region that is sufficient for these activities includes the evolutionarily highly conserved region among human , mouse and chicken c - fos proteins .
At this time , the cells ' growth is arrested at very high density , and no differentiated morphologic characteristics are observed .
Positron emission tomography ( PET ) demonstrated a sixfold increased uptake of [ 11C ] methionine and hyperperfusion in the HPC , whereas glucose utilization was decreased in this area .
The prosurvival autophagic response of myeloma to nutrient deprivation or to nucleoside analogue treatment has not been described previously .
Seventy - five patients underwent biopsies of carcinomas metastatic to the brain .
The sequential activation of caspase - 9 and caspase - 3 / - 7 and the cleavage of poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase ( PARP ) were observed behind those mitochondrial events .
METHODS : In this study , we screened the expression profile of AQP0 - 12 in breast cancer tissues and corresponding normal tissues by RT - PCR , Western blotting and immunohistochemistry .
However , the role of IL - 8 in non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma ( NHL ) has not been fully determined .
Recently , overexpression of EphA2 , a member of the Eph family of receptor tyrosine kinases , has been reported in several cancers .
Immunohistochemical study with specific antisera was done .
In addition , the double staining was also used to determine VEGF - C expression in TAMs .
Expression of DCC and netrin - 1 in normal human endometrium and its implication in endometrial carcinogenesis .
Vital imaging using high - resolution ultrasound enhanced with contrast microbubbles revealed that the effects of LeTx on tumor perfusion were remarkably rapid ( less than 24 h ) and resulted in a marked reduction of perfusion within the tumor but not in nontumor tissues .
From one of the revertants , we recovered a 0 . 2 - kb cDNA , N56 , that suppresses the tumor growth of the transformed 3Y1 cells irrespective of the expression of the E6 and E7 genes .
In addition , selected novel classes of antivascular therapies , including those targeting tumor endothelial cells and other components of the tumor vasculature , are summarized .
These results reveal upregulation of an endogenous angiogenesis inhibitor during multi step tumorigenesis and identify enhanced stromal TSP - 2 expression as a novel host anti - tumor defense mechanism .
It may be that metastasis suppression by the nm23 gene is a tissue - specific phenomenon .
Compared with the control cells , a desensitization of the response was observed in cells transformed by the overexpression of N - , Ha - , or Ki - ras genes .
Tumor sections were stained for : endothelial cells with CD31 and PAS or hypoxia inducible factor 1alpha ( HIF ) .
These HCC cell lines had a similar genetic background but with an increasing potential of metastasis .
Immunohistochemical studies showed that the epithelioid cells were strongly positive for a broad spectrum of cytokeratins ( AE1 / AE3 , CAM5 . 2 , epithelial membrane antigen and cytokeratin 7 ) and mesothelial markers ( calretinin , Wilms ' tumour 1 and D2 - 40 ) .
A thorough understanding of the unique metabolism of cancer cells will help to design of more effective drugs targeting metabolic pathways , which will greatly impact the capacity to effectively treat cancer patients .
Autocrine angiotensin system regulation of bovine aortic endothelial cell migration and plasminogen activator involves modulation of proto - oncogene pp60c - src expression .
Neuroblastoma and hepatocyte coculture conditioned media alter apoptosis .
Neoplastic transformation and tumorigenesis associated with overexpression of phospholipase D isozymes in cultured murine fibroblasts .
Germline succinate dehydrogenase subunit A ( SDHA ) mutations have been reported in a few patients with a classical mitochondrial neurodegenerative disease .
Immunofluorescence was used to observe the differentiation of the grafted cells into cardiomyocytes .
Here we report that the distal region of the hepatoma type II hexokinase promoter displays consensus motifs for hypoxia - inducible factor ( HIF - 1 ) that overlap E - box sequences known to be related in other gene promoters to glucose response .
The control WB cells in continuous culture slowly developed TGF - beta resistance .
After IL - 1Ra treatment of GK rats in vivo , most selected genes implied in endothelium / OS / immune cells / fibrosis were significantly down - regulated .
Inactivation of IGF - IR resulted in a loss of endothelial cells , accompanied by dramatic changes in fetal lung explant morphology .
Cells which had been grown in medium containing 1 ng / ml TGF - beta developed colony - forming capacity in soft agar containing epidermal growth factor .
Mutations in colonic adenomas , and the frequent losses on 4q described in gastric cancer prompt speculation about the role of CDC4 / FBXW7 in gastric carcinogenesis .
Our data identify what we believe to be new functions for PTHrP in several key steps of breast cancer and suggest that PTHrP may constitute a novel target for therapeutic intervention .
The dual function of Id - 1 , inhibition of differentiation , and stimulation of cell proliferation , might be interdependent , as cell differentiation is generally coupled with the exit from the cell cycle .
Determining sVAP - 1 levels may be valuable for predicting prognosis and lymph node metastasis .
The purpose of this study was to determine the level of agreement between pediatric dentists and endodontists at a pulp therapy symposium conjointly sponsored by the American Association of Endodontists ( AAE ) and the American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry ( AAPD ) on November 2 - 3 , 2007 .
However , glycolysis and GLUT - 1 can also be induced independent of HIF - 1alpha by other factors , such as c - Myc and phosphorylated Akt ( pAkt ) .
In all of these assays , equivalent treatments with a mixture of the HAH plus cortisol was significantly less effective .
SAHA downregulated Bcl - XL and upregulated proapoptotic BH3 - only protein Bim , whose expression was further enhanced by E1A in cancer cells .
c - kit gene mutation may play a significant role in the pathogenesis of GIST and also may be a prognostic marker .
As TGF - beta is a potent negative growth regulator of hematopoietic cells , investigations were undertaken to determine whether inactivation of the receptor by microsatellite alteration might be involved in the progression of CML .
These new insights into the involvement of syndecans in disease and tissue repair coupled with the emergence of syndecan - specific molecular tools may lead to novel therapies for a variety of human diseases .
Selenoperoxidase - dependent glutathione cycle activity in peroxide - challenged leukemia cells .
More than 50 % of the tumor cells coexpressed vimentin and keratin .
The study presented here examined the ability of specific regions and activities of T antigen to modulate apoptosis in cells treated with the genotoxic agent 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) .
In neuronal cells , following Brn - 3a gene transfection and superexpression , an increase of 30 fold of the Bcl - 2 protein occurs , leading to apoptosis protection .
Tumor size , serosal invasion , lymph node metastasis , peritoneal dissemination , and TNM classification was significantly correlated with sVAP - 1 level .
RESULTS : LOH of D10S541 , D10S583 and D10S1687 was found in 37 . 5 % ( 21 / 56 ) of advanced gastric cancers .
BMECs transfected with SV40T ( BMSVTs ) had an extended lifespan , but eventually succumbed to crisis .
As in prior studies , there were significant vascular volume differences between DMBA and DMBA + radiation groups of tumor - bearing cheek pouches .
BACKGROUND : Roundabouts are axon guidance molecules that have recently been identified to play a role in vascular guidance as well .
Moreover , the lymph nodes close to the salivary glands were enlarged , and histology showed that they had activated follicles .
Here , we investigated the expression of Ets - 1 during reendothelialization .
These experimental facts indicated that acquisition of metastatic ability coupled with the function of K - ras oncogene was conditional in nature , being strongly affected by in vivo tumor circumstances .
The expression of Merlin protein was not associated with the pathological type , gender , P - TNM stage , differentiation and lymph node metastasis ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
Slight variations are caused by drug treatment in tumor - bearing mice as compared with untreated tumor - bearing controls ; the pattern of effects of the selective antimetastatic agents does not differ from that of the reference cytotoxic compound used , cyclophosphamide .
Sequence analysis revealed that this gene had 95 % homology with the LMP sequence of the B95 - 8 strain .
Leukocyte - vessel wall interactions were studied both within and outside small tumors growing in the ear , and in ear microvessels of mice with a large tumor growing on their flank .
OBJECTIVES : This study sought to assess the cellular and histologic basis of irreversible pulmonary hypertension ( PHT ) in the clinical setting of congenital heart disease ( CHD ) .
B - cell lines established from two individuals with T - cell acute lymphocytic leukemia ( T - ALL ) express HLA - DR antigens , whereas the isogenic T - cells do not .
Finally , intraperitoneal injection or oral administration of HTPB efficiently inhibited A549 xenograft tumor growth in vivo without side effects .
However , the 5 - year survival rate of patients with high MMP - 9 protein expression were lower than those with low expression ( 19 vs . 4 . 7 % , p < 0 . 05 ) .
The mechanism underlying this VEGF - associated angiogenesis may be an increase in stretch due to enhanced diastolic filling .
Here , we show that the downregulation of Brk1 results in abnormal actin stress fiber formation and vinculin distribution and loss of Arp2 / 3 and Wave proteins at the cellular protrusions .
METHODS : The invasion , apoptosis and levels of uPA , MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 were determined by invasion assay , flow cytometry , Western blot and real - time fluorescence quantitative PCR respectively .
Consistently , it was found that MOG rapidly decreased the intracellular glutathione ( GSH ) content in a dose - dependent manner and the significance of GSH depletion in MOG - induced apoptosis was further supported by the protective effects of tert - butylhydroquinone ( tBHQ ) and the facilitative effects of DL - buthionine ( S , R ) - sulfoximine ( BSO ) .
Our data suggest that VEGFR2 - mediated regulation of endothelial function is dependent on different but specific Rab - mediated GTP hydrolysis activity required for endosomal trafficking .
Relationship between of blood flow , glucose metabolism , protein synthesis , glucose and ATP content in experimentally - induced glioma ( RG1 2 . 2 ) of rat brain .
RESULTS : Mice bearing subcutaneous tumor of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS pretreated Lewis lung carcinoma cells showed > 50 % reduction in primary tumor volume and reduced spontaneous pulmonary metastases .
Consistent with this hypothesis , inhibition of Erbb2 in v - ras ( Ha ) transgenic mice before UV exposure resulted in both 56 % fewer skin tumors and tumors that were 70 % smaller .
Kaplan - Meier survival curves showed a statistically significant worse prognosis for patients with high vascular grade , but no difference was observed between low and medium vascular grade .
After 1 drug - free week , the second course was administered with 120 mg / body / day of TS - 1 for 4 weeks .
Clinical implication of expression of cyclooxygenase - 2 and peroxisome proliferator activated - receptor gamma in epithelial ovarian tumours .
The medical records were reviewed independent of the staining results to determine site of tumor origin .
In this cell line , c - myb is activated by insertional mutagenesis and cannot be effectively down regulated by cytokine .
These results indicate the possibility that activation of angiogenic activity after resection of osteosarcoma tumors enhances progression of pulmonary metastasis .
The extracellular matrix ( ECM ) directs all phases of healing following trauma or disease and is therefore a natural source of prosthetic mesh material that can be used strategically to induce the repair and restoration of soft tissues following surgery .
Treatment of stage IV colorectal cancer is based on the type of prior therapy and patient - specific factors .
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES : Chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) is the most common leukemia in the western world .
DNA fragmentation occurred in response to anti - Fas treatment .
A precise identification of LVI would have a strong clinical impact for breast cancer patients .
Apoptosis , characterized by nuclear condensation , membrane blebbing , cell shrinkage and a significant induction of caspase - 3 - like protease activity at 8 h in a time - course study were observed .
METHODS : Expression of MMP - 9 was studied in human NPC cell lines cultured in vitro : CNE1 ( well differentiated cell line of NPC ) and CNE1 - GL ( CNE1 cell line transfected with an eukaryotic LMP1 - expression plasmid ) by SP immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis .
RESULTS : ITCs were observed in peripheral blood and bone marrow even in early stages of gastric cancer .
No clinicopathologic factors were significantly correlated with p53 or VEGF expression .
HSP27 is implicated in protein - protein interactions such as folding , translocation , and prevention of inappropriate protein aggregation .
Fluorescein angiograms were reviewed retrospectively to identify juxtafoveal CNV .
The transformed cells were cloned after in vivo tumorigenic assay , and 4 clones were analyzed for osteonectin expression by Northern blots .
To define these roles more clearly , we examined the expression of DCC and its ligand , netrin - 1 , in the normal endometrium and in endometrial cancer .
The aim of this study was the assessment of correlations among proteins involved in apoptosis - Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 - as well as relationships of these proteins with selected clinicopathological features in oral squamous cell carcinoma .
Pretreatment with DMI followed by combination of DMI and FA decreased GR - mediated transcription more than pretreatment with FA .
Thus , genetic loss or inhibition of BRK1 is likely to be protective against tumor development due to proliferation and motility defects in affected cells .
It is questionable , whether collateral arteries also form de novo in ischemic vascular diseases .
hTERT activity is associated with nodal metastases and cellular proliferation .
We have detected transforming activity by a tumorigenicity assay using NIH3T3 cells transfected with DNA from a chronic myeloproliferative disorder patient .
Genes most significantly represented in this program are those with roles in cell growth and proliferation > protein synthesis > gene expression > cell death > cell cycle .
With the enhancement of FPC concentration , the authors observed chromatin condensation in some phases companying with the characteristic apoptosis .
Six subclones were randomly selected from H - 3 cells which had been subcultured to passage 22 .
Although implicated as a tumor suppressor , its role in sporadic cancer is uncertain .
One hundred mg / body / day of TS - 1 was orally administrated for 4 weeks .
Smooth muscle - rich tissues respond to mechanical overload by an adaptive hypertrophic growth combined with activation of angiogenesis , which potentiates their mechanical overload - bearing capabilities .
The onset of their differentiation was ascertained by the deposition of marker pteridine pigments .
Angiostatin was first discovered as a plasminogen fragment with antitumor / antiangiogenic property .
METHODS : Immunohistochemical staining of E - cadherin and alpha - and beta - catenin was performed using specimens from 143 patients with early gastric cancer .
The results suggest that chronic exposure to high concentration of TGF - beta promotes the spontaneous neoplastic transformation of cultured rat liver epithelial cells , and that this process may represent one of the mechanisms of cellular adaptation for induction of the multidrug - resistant phenotype during the carcinogenesis of epithelial cells .
rho genes have been found in both lower and higher eucaryotes .
Focal adhesion kinase ( pp125FAK or FAK ) is a protein tyrosine kinase which is associated with intracellular signalling cascades which are initiated when the integrin family of cell adhesion molecules engage extracellular matrix molecules .
We also established that doxorubicin treatment induces proliferation arrest and FOXO3a nuclear relocation in sensitive breast cancer cells .
Cytokines and growth factors induce tyrosine phosphorylation of signal transducers and activators of transcription ( STATs ) that directly activate gene expression .
The kinase reactions showed preference for ATP and MgCl2 instead of GTP or MnCl2 .
Prior to this cellular outcome , FOXO3a is functionally activated and mediates a large - scale transcription program in response to this damage involving a significant modulation of 440 genes .
Proteolytic activity is required for the turnover of the extracellular matrix during wound healing .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : Using a custom microarray , we analyzed 72 primary PETs , seven matched metastases , and 10 normal pancreatic samples .
The epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGF - R , c - erbB1 ) , Her - 2 / neu ( c - erbB2 ) , and c - erbB3 are members of the erbB - family .
The tumor may present with widespread metastases that are unresponsive to aggressive treatment .
Thyroid transcription factor - 1 ( TTF - 1 ) is expressed in lung adenocarcinomas and thyroid carcinomas but not in adenocarcinomas arising from other sites .
Because failure of endothelial cell apoptosis might lead to intimal proliferation and lack of reversibility of PHT , we investigated this and other key markers of vasoactivity and angiogenesis in subjects with PHT and CHD .
Polyphenols are natural antioxidants that are thought to contribute to prevention of cardiovascular disease and malignancy .
Under normal conditions insulin regulates expression of hexokinase Type II isoenzyme , which is predominantly expressed in muscle .
It focuses on the role of IL - 18 modulation in tumours , infections and autoimmune and inflammatory diseases .
Furthermore , the conditioned medium from these cells enhanced vascular permeability in vivo .
IFN - alpha / beta signalling itself does not activate p53 ; rather , it contributes to boosting p53 responses to stress signals .
Our results support the use of FDG PET in clinical trials with RAF265 to assess early tumor response .
However , the underlying mechanism is poorly understood .
We also speculate that this synchronizes them into a temporal highly chemosensitive state and is the underlying reason why adjuvant chemotherapy works particularly well for that patient category .
RASSF1C down - regulates several pro - apoptotic and tumor suppressor genes and up - regulates several growth promoting genes in breast cancer cells .
Isotype - specific inhibitors of the glycolytic key regulator pyruvate kinase subtype M2 moderately decelerate tumor cell proliferation .
These observations , combined with new molecular insights with HIF - 1alpha and c - myc , have rekindled an interest in this important phenotype .
These results also suggest therapeutic implications concerning Wnt signaling inhibitors .
Ovarian cancer is a silent killer , and shows early extensive tumor invasion and peritoneal metastasis .
Finally , we identified FGF13 as a new prognostic marker that predicted poorer outcome in patients who were clinically considered free from disease .
METHODS : Thirty - six New Zealand white rabbits were evaluated in this study .
We analyzed the relative abundance of ST3 and BM - 40 / SPARC transcripts by Northern blot , and their distribution by in situ hybridization , in normal mucosa , benign adenomas , and primary colorectal adenocarcinomas and their liver metastases .
These studies thus identify p600 as a shared target of the E7 proteins of multiple papillomaviruses .
A 74 - year - old man presented with persistent metamorphopsias of the right eye 2 weeks after intravitreal injection of bevacizumab to treat choroidal neovascularization due to exudative age - related macular degeneration .
After incubation for 4 days , the medium from the coculture system is collected .
To elucidate the role of N - glycosylation in the functional activity of the universal glucose transporter , Glut - 1 , we investigated effects of the N - glycosylation inhibitor , tunicamycin , on glucose transport by human leukemic cell lines K562 , U937 and HL60 .
Here we review the recent evidence of a simple genetic mechanism by which tumor suppressor p53 regulates mitochondrial respiration with secondary changes in glycolysis that are reminiscent of the Warburg effect .
Recent reports suggest that elevated levels of plasminogen activator inhibitor - 1 ( PAI - 1 ) may contribute to tumour progression .
Interestingly , cells transformed by FLT3 and BCR / ABL mutations that confer resistance to small - molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors were still sensitive to knockdown of PIM - 2 , or PIM - 1 and PIM - 2 by RNAi .
Increased urokinase plasminogen activator ( uPA ) levels are increased in a number of malignancies and have been correlated with decreased disease - free interval and decreased overall survival .
After additional prednisolone treatment from day 9 or 15 after inoculation , no significant difference was detected in the recultivation rate of C . albicans compared with the control .
This analysis revealed a total of 22 protein - spots whose expression was altered by more than 3 - folds .
However , their potency toward individual targets can vary .
We used these data to establish a convenient , effective and non - radioactive ELISA screening technique for the identification and evaluation of potential inhibitors for VEGFR - 2 kinase .
When wound healing assay was used to assess in vitro tumor cell migration , hypoxia conditioning for 1 h enhanced B16F10 cell migration .
Cancer progression and p53 .
Tumor necrosis factor - alpha ( TNF - alpha ) was first isolated two decades ago as a macrophageproduced protein that can effectively kill tumor cells .
This followed from several characteristics of the immune complex kinase reactions and especially from the strong inhibition of p53 phosphorylation by two anti - large - T monoclonal antibodies .
Thus , DATS may represent a colon cancer preventive agent and can be used in the future .
Collagen - poly glycolic acid hybrid matrix with basic fibroblast growth factor accelerated angiogenesis and granulation tissue formation in diabetic mice .
CONCLUSIONS : We have established a model to study the regulation of angiogenesis by human adipose tissue .
This study suggests that the expression of HSP27 is frequently promoted in patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma and should be considered an independent prognostic factor of oral squamous cell carcinoma patients .
Increased VEGF expression by malignant tumors has been associated with high vascularity , increased cancer cell growth , and lymph node metastasis .
Prolonged silencing of both MCTs reduced viability by 75 % individually and 92 % in combination , as measured by both phenotypic and flow cytometric analyses .
T - antigen - mediated sensitization occurred independently of retinoblastoma protein or p53 and p300 binding .
Four out of seven control grafts were patent with endothelial cell lining at six months , but three were occluded and one of the four grafts was still covered with a thrombus layer .
Matrix metalloproteinase / tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinase phenotype identifies poor prognosis colorectal cancers .
[ Study of fungus polysaccharides compounds ( FPC ) in inducing the apoptosis of liver cancer cell Bel - 7402 ] .
Fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 - positive fibroblasts provide a suitable microenvironment for tumor development and progression in esophageal carcinoma .
PURPOSE : Angiogenesis is increased in aggressive histology non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma and may be a target with selective cyclooxygenase - 2 inhibition and metronomic chemotherapy .
Maintained utilization of these substrates , in a substrate - deficient environment , suggests increased sensitivities to metabolic signals , which may play a role in the development of metabolic diseases in later adult life .
At this writing , heparin appears to be the principal mast cell factor responsible for this effect on capillary endothelial cells .
In extracts of growing and stationary Swiss 3T3 cells , the total amount of protein kinase C activity was similar , indicating that growth state does not alter the level of enzyme in the cell .
The Kaposi ' s sarcoma - associated herpesvirus ( KSHV ) encodes a G protein - coupled receptor ( vGPCR ) that has been implicated in the initiation of Kaposi ' s sarcoma , identifying vGPCR as an attractive target for preventing Kaposi ' s sarcoma .
In contrast , knockdown of Pbx1 did not impair bone marrow transformation by E2A / HLF or AML1 / ETO , suggesting that Pbx1 is specifically required for the maintenance of bone marrow transformation mediated by Evi - 1 .
A receptor for angiostatin was identified on the surface of endothelial cells as F ( 1 ) - F ( 0 ) ATP synthase ( Moser et al . , 1999 ) .
Additional analysis of the mechanism of action of Go6976 ( RT - PCR , Western blots , and immunohistochemistry ) of the changes in the phosphorylated and nonphosphorylated forms of PKCalpha in the cell membrane and cytoplasm confirmed the specificity of PKCalpha inhibition by Go6976 .
Formation of apoptotic bodies was preceded by lowering of intracellular polyamines , particularly putrescine , and both dose - and time - dependent inhibitory and activation effect by ACA on ornithine decarboxylase ( ODC ) and spermidine / spermine N ( 1 ) - acetyltransferase ( SSAT ) , respectively .
We hypothesized that an additional direct consequence of FH deficiency is the establishment of a biosynthetic milieu .
However , the exact mechanisms of ARF action yet remain unclear and require further studies by different specialists at both the molecular genetic and other levels of investigation .
The final mean visual acuity in group A ( 55 years of age or younger ) was 20 / 80 and significantly ( P = 0 . 006 ) better than that ( 20 / 138 ) in group B ( older than 55 years of age ) .
Although antibodies to PAI - 1 did not affect the adhesion of HT1080 cells to vitronectin , the antibody to uPA reduced their attachment .
In summary , the angiogenic property of oral cancer cells is mediated by many factors in addition to VEGF and the functional status of p53 .
Since the vessels of normal non - neoplastic human tissues , e . g . of intestine or lymphatic organs , have few somatostatin receptors , the increased somatostatin receptor expression in peritumoral vessels observed in this study may be linked to the neoplastic process itself .
Building the vertebrate vasculature : research is going swimmingly .
Bevacizumab is a humanized immunoglobulin G1 monoclonal antibody to vascular endothelial growth factor that has been shown to have activity in malignant gliomas when combined with irinotecan .
The pro - angiogenic capacities of perlecan that involve proliferative and migratory signals in response to bound growth factors will be explored , as well as the anti - angiogenic signals resulting from interactions between the C - terminal domain known as endorepellin and integrins that control adhesion of cells to the extracellular matrix .
The putative metastasis suppressor genes , NME1 ( nm23 - 1 ) and NME2 ( nm23 - 2 ) , were examined in a model system we developed to approximate the dissemination of melanoma from a primary skin tumor .
IL - 18 is also functionally related to IL - 12 , as it induces the production of Th1 cytokines and participates in cell - mediated immune cytotoxicity .
These results suggest that the role of WT1 is different depending on the type of leukemia cell in which it is expressed .
For detecting the mechanism of apoptosis induced by docetaxel - ATRA combination , OligoGeArray which consists of 112 apoptosis related genes was used .
Statistically significant differences were observed regarding angiogenesis between the control group and groups 3 and 4 .
Archival tissues from 40 patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma who received primary surgical resection were examined for HSP27 by immunohistochemistry and correlated with clinical stage , lymph node metastasis , histological grade and survival period .
The effect of angiopoietin 1 depends on the tumour model .
Analysis of promoter hypermethylation of the APC gene was also carried out using methylation - specific PCR ( MS - PCR ) .
Hence , regulatory mechanisms of IL - 8 need to be investigated in whole tissue .
Ectopic localization of mitochondrial ATP synthase : a target for anti - angiogenesis intervention ?
The expression of HMGA2 modulates the expression of hTERT , resulting in cells with enhanced telomerase activities and increased telomere length .
Anti - endosialin antibodies may have value in identifying vasculature in malignant tissues .
Role of thrombin in angiogenesis and tumor progression .
Circulating endothelial cells and their precursors declined and remained low in responders , whereas plasma vascular endothelial growth factor trended to decline in responding patients but increase in nonresponders .
CONCLUSION : The data suggest that both h - MVD and VEGF immunoreactivity may be useful predictors for the progression of a subset of OSCC associated mostly with betel use .
Decreased expression of TGF - beta RII in CML cells and leukemia cell lines raises the possibility that altered expression of the receptor may play a role in the initiation and / or maintenance of the disease state .
The absence of iritis , neovascularization , and necrotizing keratitis in the corneas of the immunized animals was particularly striking .
Smad1 / 5 / 8 phosphorylation was measured by Western blot analysis .
Since the HTR8 line has a limited in vitro lifespan of 12 - 15 passages , SV40 Tag - transformed cells were selected on the basis of extended lifespan .
There is more and more information on the role of ARF in the regulation of a cell cycle , apoptosis , and autophagy .
Nevertheless , using an miR - BHRF1 - 1 and miR - BHRF1 - 3 double mutant , we could directly assess and confirm the contribution of miR - BHRF1 - 2 to B - cell transformation .
Treatment was discontinued at patient request or if there was no measurable response to therapy .
Truncated galectin - 3 inhibits tumor growth and metastasis in orthotopic nude mouse model of human breast cancer .
Sanguinarine induces apoptosis of human osteosarcoma cells through the extrinsic and intrinsic pathways .
Pouch vascular volume and permeability changes were studied by fractional distributions of radiotracers and were analyzed by a variety of statistical methods which explored the vascular parameters , treatment types , elapsed time , presence of the carcinogen , and histopathologic changes .
Loss of p21 completely abolished the cell cycle arrest function of p53R172P and accelerated tumor onset in Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) mice .
None of the test drugs demonstrated significant anti - edema activity .
Immunohistochemistry with 27 primary antibodies was performed in 100 formalin - fixed paraffin - embedded samples of invasive ductal carcinomas .
Some human cancer cells have been found to overexpress eph mRNAs without gene amplification .
Systemic regulation of distraction osteogenesis : a cascade of biochemical factors .
Neovascularization , an essential event for the growth of solid tumors , is regulated by a number of angiogenic factors .
In animal studies , 1B3 significantly enhanced the antitumor and the anti - angiogenic activities of DC101 , an antibody directed against mouse vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 , in a pancreatic ( BxPC - 3 ) and a non - small cell lung ( NCI - H460 ) tumor xenograft models .
Incubation with 1 micromol / L sanguinarine for 4 and 24h killed more efficiently MG - 63 cells than SaOS - 2 cells , while incubation with 5 micromol / L sanguinarine killed almost 100 % of both cell populations within 24h .
The nonspecific character of these pathways led us to hypothesize that circulating cancer cells use similar mechanisms , promoting secondary tumor formation at distal sites .
Also , a significant correlation existed between CTGF mRNA levels versus tumor grade , gender , and pathology .
Finally , an immunohistochemistry method ( Hypoxyprobe ) demonstrated that tissue hypoxia was present in the spleen and BM .
Apoptotic index ( AI ) was calculated , based on the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase - mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate biotin nick end labeling , to evaluate apoptosis .
A diagnosis of advanced gastric cancer with extensive lymph node metastases and multiple pulmonary metastases was made .
This review summarizes the current state of the art concerning the involvement of aberrant Pten function in the development of different biologic features of malignant gliomas , such as loss of cell - cycle control and uncontrolled cell proliferation , escape from apoptosis , brain invasion , and aberrant neoangiogenesis .
Consistent with this hypothesis , co - injection of VPF / VEGF together with OPN resulted in rapid cleavage of OPN by endogenous thrombin .
Among the members of this superfamily there are proteins with a regulatory function , such as ras , and proteins involved in vesicular trafficking , such as the family of rab proteins .
Antioxidants significantly reduced TNFalpha - induced genetic damage .
A summary is made of recent advances in the understanding of IL - 18 structure , processing , receptor expression and immunoregulatory functions .
A C - terminal segment consisting of T - antigen amino acids 251 to 708 ( T251 - 708 ) also sensitized cells to 5 - FU - induced apoptosis .
A reduction and not an increase in tumor glucose availability could be a more appropriate strategy for the induction of energy failure in tumors .
Rats were immunized with irradiated hepatoma cells transduced by herpes viral amplicon vectors containing the genes for GM - CSF , IL - 2 or LacZ .
CONCLUSIONS : Irreversible PHT is strongly associated with impaired endothelial cell apoptosis and antiapoptotic signaling from perivascular inflammatory cells .
They exhibited specific and high - affinity binding of somatostatin - 14 , somatostatin - 28 and octreotide , suggesting a preferential expression of the SSTR2 receptor subtype .
Methotrexate ( MTX ) , a folic acid antagonist widely used for the treatment of a variety of tumors and inflammatory diseases , affects normal tissues that have a high rate of proliferation , including the hematopoietic cells of the bone marrow and the gastrointestinal mucosal cells .
In vivo studies , CT26 cancer cells were implanted into BALB / c mice and groups of mice were treated with vehicle , DATS ( 10 and 50 mg / kg of body weight ) .
IL - 17F ablation decreased IL - 1beta and Cox - 2 expression as well as IL - 17 receptor C ( IL - 17RC ) expression , which were increased in tumors from Apc ( Min / + ) mice .
Organ biodistribution studies revealed that galectin - 3C localized in the liver , kidneys , and spleen but not in the heart or lungs .
In many diseases state body loses control over angiogenesis .
Increased NOS activity is mediated solely by Ca ( 2 + ) - dependent NOS and , as shown by immunoblotting , an upregulation of endothelial NOS .
The induction of elevated p53 levels was dependent upon the presence of active virus and was prevented by neutralizing antibody .
These results suggest that L - Car , possibly via its free radical scavenging and antioxidant properties , ameliorates MTX - induced oxidative organ injury and inhibits leukocyte apoptosis .
The genetic basis of increased glycolytic activity observed in cancer cells is likely to be the result of complex interactions of multiple regulatory pathways .
Left ventricular weight , body weight , and their ratio were not significantly altered by alinidine treatment .
RESULTS : Thirty - two of 35 patients ( median age , 62 years ) are evaluable for response .
Diabetic foot wounds are consequences of the neuropathy and the small and large vessel disease that complicate diabetes .
Then , we examined the role of two major downstream molecules of Crk , Rac1 and Rap1 .
Historically , PDT has been limited by a lack of suitable photosensitive dyes .
We thus have identified a novel element of the complex signaling network involved in the control of cell proliferation and differentiation .
Immunodetection was performed with a specific anti - bFGF mouse monoclonal antibody that was found to react with recombinant human bFGF in Western blot analysis , and to specifically neutralize the mitogenic activity of bFGF on bovine vascular endothelial cells .
In order to explore the mechanism of action of angiostatin and its mimetics , further work needs to be done to evaluate clinical applicability , specificity , and contraindications for this class of therapeutics .
This cell line is not invasive by nature and secretes moderate amounts of VEGF - C ; intrauterine injection of HEC1A cells into Balb / c nude mice resulted in uterine cancer with lymph node metastasis after 8 weeks .
A vascular prosthesis needs angiogenesis for endothelialization of the luminal surface , as endothelial cells have natural and permanent antithrombogenic properties .
Finally , dynamic host - to - graft interactions - - including phagocytic migration , astrocytic hypertrophy and infiltration within the grafts , and angiogenesis - - are features that constitute the structural integration of primary skin fibroblasts grafted within the adult rat central nervous system .
In the pituitary and pancreatic islets , phosphorylation of the retinoblastoma ( Rb ) protein at both CDK2 and CDK4 / 6 sites was increased in p18 ( - / - ) and Men1 ( + / - ) cells and was further increased in p18 ( - / - ) ; Men1 ( + / - ) cells .
METHODS : PTEN promoter methylation was detected in surgical specimens of CCMs ( n = 69 ) by methylation - specific polymerase chain reaction .
Rat embryonic lung explant studies further validated the importance of the IGF - IGF - IR system for lung vascular development .
Tumor angiogenesis might contribute to tumor malignant progression by inhibiting spontaneous apoptosis in LSCC .
Chronic exposure to tobacco smoke , which contains over 60 tumor - initiating carcinogens , is the major risk factor for development of lung cancer , accounting for a large portion of cancer - related deaths worldwide .
One of the most fundamental is the ability to act as essential growth checkpoint that protects cells against cellular transformation .
Vimentin was expressed preferentially in tumor cells of high - grade ductal breast carcinomas ( 15 of 28 histologic grade 3 vs . 0 of 40 grades 1 and 2 ) .
BACKGROUND : The fate of patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia of type II A ( MEN II A ) is determined by medullary thyroid carcinoma , which occurs in all cases .
The p53 protein suppresses tumorigenesis by initiating cellular functions such as cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in response to DNA damage .
It is also involved in the regulation of immune reactions , hematopoiesis and inflammatory state .
There was negative correction between KISS1 and MMP - 9 protein expression ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
These results suggest that products of ethanol metabolism are important factors in the development of ethanol - induced changes in endothelial cell responsiveness to VEGF .
The present studies examine whether lymphocyte stimulation via cells engineered to secrete GM - CSF or IL - 2 decreases hepatic tumor growth , and whether stimulation of both macrophages and lymphocytes is more effective than either individually .
However , owing to the long latency of tumor formation and the sporadic occurrence of bona fide mammary cancers , we conclude that the Tsg101 protein has only weak oncogenic properties .
However , when compared with clinicopathological features , the expression of HSP27 correlated inversely with survival period .
Angiogenin is up - regulated in the nucleus and cytoplasm in human primary breast carcinoma and is associated with markers of hypoxia but not survival .
Binding of factor VIIa ( FVIIa ) to its cellular receptor tissue factor ( TF ) was previously shown to induce various intracellular signaling events , which were thought to be responsible for TF - mediated biologic effects , including angiogenesis , tumor metastasis , and restenosis .
VEGF - A ( 165 ) , B , C , Flt - 1 , and KDR were analyzed .
In tumor studies , P18 was more effective in blocking the angiogenesis and growth of the prostate cancer than parental 34 - mer ; in the renal cell carcinoma , P18 strongly decreased angiogenesis and halted the progression of established tumors .
VEGF165 or AdCMV . beta gal ( 2 x 10 ( 10 ) pfu ) was resuspended in 0 . 5 mL Matrigel and injected subcutaneously into mice .
Only one eye received a second PDT treatment due to choroidal neovascularization .
Recent evidence suggests the existence of endothelial precursors in adult bone marrow cells , but it is unclear whether those precursors have a role in tumor neovascularization .
The percentage of cell apoptosis increased with the enhancing of concentration .
p53 hot - spot mutants increase tumor vascularization via ROS - mediated activation of the HIF1 / VEGF - A pathway .
These data provide the first demonstration of IGF - I / II expression in the human lung in early gestation and indicate that the IGF family of growth factors , acting through the IGF - IR , is required as a survival factor during normal human lung vascularization .
In summary , these results suggest that ADAM - 9 expression plays an important role in mediating cell - cell contacts between fibroblasts and melanoma cells and that these interactions contribute to proteolytic activities required during invasion of melanoma cells .
However , how survivin couples to the cell death machinery has remained elusive , and the relevant cellular targets of survivin antagonists have not been completely elucidated .
Our findings support a novel role for pyruvate in metabolic signaling and suggest a mechanism by which high rates of aerobic glycolysis can promote the malignant transformation and survival of cancer cells .
In humans with AMD , MCs accumulated in the subretinal space at sites of retinal degeneration and choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) .
Using a human recombinant antibody ( scFv ) specific for the angiogenesis marker domain B of fibronectin , interleukin 2 , and an scFv able to neutralize tumor necrosis factor - alpha , we expressed various biologically active uteroglobin fusion proteins .
The presence of microvascular proliferation leads to the histological diagnosis of glioblastoma multiforme .
He noted that wounds , like tumors , secrete VPF , causing blood vessels to leak plasma fibrinogen , which stimulates blood vessel growth and provides a matrix on which they can spread .
In contrast , a selective COX - I inhibitor , SC - 560 , had no effect on serum progesterone concentrations .
Aflibercept ( AVE0005 ) : an alternative strategy for inhibiting tumour angiogenesis by vascular endothelial growth factors .
Deleted in split hand / split foot 1 ( Dss1 ) is a gene associated with a heterogeneous limb developmental disorder called split hand / split foot malformation .
These observations support that the activation of multiple signals could enhance apoptotic response and suggest the therapeutic interest of the TRAIL / camptothecin combination .
Diallyl trisulfide ( DATS ) inhibits mouse colon tumor in mouse CT - 26 cells allograft model in vivo .
As pregnancy advanced the complexity of the vasculature increased : at 4 weeks the surface showed a pattern of ridges separated by troughs .
Aqueous humor was collected at cataract surgery from 19 diabetic patients and from 13 age - and sex - matched normoglycemic controls .
This study investigates HIF - 1alpha , c - Myc , pAkt , and aerobic glycolysis in low - passage breast cancer cells under the assumption that these represent the in vivo condition better than established lines .
PURPOSE : The goal of this research was to evaluate a potential therapeutic agent for breast cancer based on galectin - 3 that has been implicated in tumorigenicity and metastasis of breast cancer .
A multitude of VEGF - targeted inhibitory agents are currently being investigated for the treatment of cancer .
The association of fibrinogen levels with clinical / pathological findings and clinical outcome was evaluated .
To examine the mechanisms underlying the relative resistance in HCC , we investigated the role of autophagy , an evolutionarily conserved self - digestion pathway , in hepatoma cells in vitro and in vivo .
We found that silencing RASSF1C mRNA in breast cancer cell lines ( MDA - MB231 and T47D ) caused a small but significant decrease in cell proliferation .
The coagulative parameters including the prothrombin time , activated partial thromboplastin time , and fibrinogen levels were collected and studied retrospectively .
This chapter focuses on the morphology of blood vessel formation in and around the early central nervous system ( CNS , i . e . , brain and spinal cord ) of avian embryos .
None of the inhibitors had any effect on the weight of the superovulated ovaries or on the synthesis of progesterone by cultured luteal cells .
Our data show that inactivating mutations in CK1delta impair SV40 - induced cellular transformation in vitro and mouse mammary carcinogenesis in vivo .
Promotion of inflammation was also involved because lower TSP - 1 was able to up - regulate the adhesion molecules intercellular adhesion molecule - 1 and vascular cell adhesion molecule - 1 .
Successful FV closure was usually indicated immediately by presence of incarcerated ICG dye in the vessel adjacent to the burn site .
Antiangiogenic and antitumor effects of a protein kinase Cbeta inhibitor in human breast cancer and ovarian cancer xenografts .
The high - mobility group A2 gene ( HMGA2 ) is one of the most frequently amplified genes in human cancers .
The effect of wild - type or mutant survivin was investigated on capillary network stability , endothelial cell viability , and caspase activation in vitro and on kinetics of tumor growth and development of angiogenesis in a breast cancer xenograft model in vivo .
Furthermore , both PLD1 and PLD2 transformants , but not vector - transfectants , induced undifferentiated sarcoma when transplanted into nude mice .
We demonstrate that a proteoglycan decorin ( DCN ) up - regulates the vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression with activation of VEGF regulating transcription factors Sp1 , hypoxia - inducible factor 1alpha ( HIF1alpha ) , and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 ( Stat3 ) via epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) , mitogen - activated protein kinase extracellular signal - regulated kinase 1 / 2 ( ERK1 / 2 ) , and protein kinase B ( AKT ) pathways in DCN transfected mouse cerebral endothelial ( MCE ) cells .
One option is to reduce the G - CSF dosage as much as possible , and observe the tempo of progression , if any , to more overt signs of malignancy .
The quaternary benzo [ c ] phenanthridine alkaloid sanguinarine inhibits the proliferation of cancerous cells from different origins , including lung , breast , pancreatic and colon , but nothing is known of its effects on osteosarcoma , a primary malignant bone tumour .
Under conditions mimicking the injection environment , the lipoplex - serum interaction was strongly dependent on helper lipid and ionic strength : lipoplexes prepared in 150 mM NaCl or lipoplexes with high ( greater than 33 mol % ) cholesterol were found to aggregate immediately .
Finally , mutating the Sp1 binding sites within the VEGF promoter or inhibiting ERK decreased VEGF promoter activity in M - CSF - treated human monocytes .
While accumlating evidence for the function of MTSS1 support the concept that it is unlikely to be a metastasis suppressor , but actually acts as a scaffold protein that interacts with multiple partners to regulate actin dynamics .
The underlying mechanisms were systematically investigated in vitro and in vivo .
What was observed , however , was the multistep acquisition of aberrant cellular genetic changes in marrow cells from patients who transformed , including activating ras oncogene mutations , clonal cytogenetic abnormalities , and G - CSF receptor mutations .
We revealed that expression of p53 proteins with amino - acid substitutions at codons 175 ( R175H ) , 248 ( R248W ) , and 273 ( R273H ) , representing the hot - spots of mutations in various human tumors , increased the number of vessels in HCT116 human colon carcinoma xenografts and , as a result , accelerated their growth .
However , its widespread application has been hampered by difficulties in the large - scale production of the antiangiogenic proteins .
[ ( 18 ) F ] deoxyglucose uptake correlates with glucose transporter ( GLUT - 1 ) expression , which can be regulated by hypoxia - inducible factor 1 alpha ( HIF - 1alpha ) .
Pten signaling in gliomas .
Ablation of ADAM - 9 in fibroblasts almost completely abolished these cellular interactions and melanoma cell invasion in vitro .
PURPOSE : We prepared tumor endothelium targeted cRGD - modified heparin derivative ( cRGD - HL ) by coupling heparin - lithocholic acid ( HL ) with cRGDyK , and evaluated inhibition effects of cRGD - HL on angiogenesis and tumor growth .
They also induced local angiogenesis in vivo in an animal model .
AID deaminates cytidines in DNA resulting in U : G mismatches that are processed into point mutations in SHM or double - strand breaks in CSR .
This study establishes the potential of metabolic targeting as a broader means to kill and sensitize myeloma and identifies a compound that can achieve this goal .
HYPOTHESIS : We speculate that there is a burst of angiogenesis of distant dormant micrometastases after surgery in approximately 20 % of premenopausal node - positive patients .
Microvascular density and vascular endothelial growth factor immunoreactivity as predictors of regional lymph node metastasis from betel - associated oral squamous cell carcinoma .
RNA interference targeting Met in these tumor cells resulted in a significant delay in tumor growth in vivo compared with the control cells .
In contrast , multicellular spheroids mimic heterogeneous cellular behavior and the consequent functional characteristics of in vivo solid tumors , and serve as important in vitro model to investigate tumor biology and responses to potential therapeutic agents .
The Hedgehog intercellular signaling pathway regulates cell proliferation and differentiation .
The subsequent identification of germline mutations in the gene encoding fumarase - - another TCA cycle enzyme - - in a new hereditary form of susceptibility to renal , uterine and cutaneous tumors has highlighted the potential role of the TCA cycle and , more generally , of the mitochondria in cancer .
Two weeks after injection , there was histological evidence of neovascularization in the tissues surrounding the Matrigel containing AdCMV . VEGF165 , whereas no significant angiogenesis was observed in response to AdCMV . beta gal .
Desensitization could be induced in NIH - 3T3 cells by culturing under conditions where the cells were all in the exponential growth phase , or by a 12 h exposure to a C - kinase - activating phorbol ester .
Small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors offer the potential to inhibit more than one kinase and impede tumor growth by multiple mechanisms .
After MNNG administration , rats were investigated by endoscopic observation , visualization of microvascular structure , and estimation of lectin binding sites .
We investigated the roles of the prostaglandin synthases cyclooxygenase ( COX ) I and COX - II in angiogenesis and progesterone production in the newly formed CL , using inhibitors of the COX enzymes and the gonadotropin - induced pseudopregnant rat as a model .
The current study was conducted to characterize the effect of insulin on retinal VEGF gene expression in vitro and in vivo .
This result indicates that CREB functions in the signaling pathway between Akt and MMP .
A number of signaling cascades have been shown to play important roles in prostate cancer development and progression , including the androgen receptor ( AR ) and phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase / Akt signaling pathways .
Rofecoxib was used for eight acute haemarthrosis , four target joints , seven cases of synovitis and 12 episodes of pain .
Treatment of cultured human endothelial cells with DAPT , a gamma secretase inhibitor , increased cell migration and sprout formation in response to VEGF stimulation with a biphasic dependence on DAPT concentration .
Expression of VEGF had a significantly positive correlation with IMVD ( r = 0 . 51 , P less than 0 . 01 ) .
This dual activity , together with the initiation of signal transduction pathways by uPAR , is believed to influence cellular behaviour in angiogenesis , inflammation , wound repair and tumor progression / metastasis and open up the way for uPAR - based therapeutic approaches .
[ 13C ] Lactate production from [ 13C ] glucose , with no detectable uptake of [ 13C ] alanine , indicated that energy production in H5 spheroids was primarily via glycolysis .
In breast cancer , biomarkers that specifically correlate with the invasive phenotypes have not been clearly identified .
Our results suggest that formation of a ternary complex of VEGF165 , KDR , and NRP1 potentiates VEGF165 binding to KDR .
Western blot was performed to detect the effect of curcumin on the expression of uPA .
Despite convincing evidence of its efficacy , little is known about the mechanism of action of TnI as an anti - proliferative and anti - angiogenic agent .
Moreover , the conditioned medium from TFs was found to be able to promote ESCC tumor cell growth , migration , and invasion in vitro .
The size of these A431 tumors did not differ significantly from those of control A431 tumors raised without F - 2 cells .
The increased migration and invasion resulted from up - regulation of expression and activities of MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 .
The mice that received Hoxa9 / Meis1 - transduced bone marrow cells developed acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) , and Trib1 , Evi1 , Ahi1 , Raralpha , Pitpnb , and AK039950 were identified as candidate cooperative genes located near common retroviral integration sites .
Previous work demonstrates that the LMP1 gene of EBV is sufficient to transform certain established rodent fibroblast cell lines and to induce the tumorigenicity of some human epithelial cell lines .
These results suggest that overexpression of PLD isozymes may play an important role in neoplastic transformation .
RESULTS : The maximum tolerated dose of galectin - 3C in nude mice was determined to be > 125 mg / kg without overt adverse effects .
Insulin - like growth factor - I receptor - mediated vasculogenesis / angiogenesis in human lung development .
Overexpression of SEMA3B and SEMA3F reduced focal adhesion kinase phosphorylation and matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and matrix metalloproteinase - 9 expression in ovarian cancer cells .
Bmi - 1 transgenic mice were born with enlarged lateral ventricles and a minority developed idiopathic hydrocephalus as adults , but none of the transgenic mice formed detectable CNS tumors , even when aged .
An anti - vascular endothelial growth factor strategy may reduce tissue damage associated with radiation vasculopathy and neuropathy .
In contrast , the neuroblastoma cells grown in the coculture conditioned media show no increase in apoptosis .
Medical therapy for intermittent claudication .
CONCLUSIONS : Insulin increases VEGF mRNA and secreted protein levels in RPE cells through enhanced transcription of the VEGF gene .
In an experiment in which vitamin E inhibited carcinogenesis , it was found that tumour angiogenesis and tumour growth - factor alpha ( TGF alpha ) expression were also inhibited .
Indeed , Ang1 promotes the activation of mDia through RhoA , resulting in the association of mDia with Src .
Tumorigenic activity of rho genes from Aplysia californica .
The average latency of leukemia induction was shorter for the erbA / myb IRES virus ( 3 . 5 weeks ) than for the erbA IRES virus ( 5 weeks ) .
In contrast , neither VEGF mRNA nor secreted protein was found in uninfected HUVECs or RASMCs or in cells infected with the control vector AdCMV . beta gal ( where beta gal is beta - galactosidase ) .
In the immunohistochemical analysis of EGFR and TGF - alpha and Ki67 index , a significant increase was observed in Ca ex - PA , especially with adenocarcinoma , compared with PA and sialadenitis .
Nitric oxide ( NO ) is an important molecule in regulating tumour blood flow and stimulating tumour angiogenesis .
The lack of treatment for worried - well patients with high - grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia combined with issues of recurrence and hormone resistance in prostate cancer survivors remains a major public health obstacle .
In this study , we investigated whether the nuclear transcription factor NF - kappaB , implicated in PC metastasis , is involved in transcriptional regulation and activation of BMP - 2 or BMP - 4 / Smad signaling in PC cells .
Tsg101 is upregulated in a subset of invasive human breast cancers and its targeted overexpression in transgenic mice reveals weak oncogenic properties for mammary cancer initiation .
These antivascular actions are due in part to direct effects on endothelial cells , and all MBDs ( both microtubule - stabilizing and microtubule - destabilizing ) inhibit endothelial cell proliferation , migration , and tube formation in vitro , actions that are thought to correspond to therapeutic antiangiogenic actions .
[ Effect of osteopontin silencing by lentivirus - mediated delivery of siRNA on glioma cell invasion and apoptosis ] .
The overall mutation rate of the MCR of the APC gene among 86 CRC cases was 12 . 8 per cent ( 11 of 86 ) .
Treatment of murine pulmonary capillary endothelial cells with HAH - cortisol at 10 ( - 5 ) M ( with respect to cortisol ) suppressed their DNA synthesis by 50 % and inhibited their migration into wounded areas of confluent monolayers .
Inhibition of angiogenesis has been shown to be an effective strategy in cancer therapy in mice .
With regard to differentiation , hypoxic cells lost their neuronal / neuroendocrine features and gained marker gene expression associated with an immature , neural crest - like phenotype .
Experiments with nu / nu mice , nonobese diabetic - SCID mice , or activated spc enriched in specific cell subpopulations demonstrated that CD4 ( + ) , CD8 ( + ) , and NK cells are all needed to mediate the full anti - angiogenetic effect of IL - 12 .
Affymetrix - microarray analysis was performed using T47D cells over - expressing RASSF1C to identify RASSF1C target genes .
CONCLUSIONS : P18 is a novel and potent antiangiogenic biotherapeutic agent that has potential to be developed for the treatment of prostate and renal cancer .
In patients with pancreatic carcinoma , the levels of fibrinogen in the group with jaundice were significantly higher than in patients without jaundice ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Eight founder and progeny mice of 5 different lines were monitored for leukemogenesis .
Two patients presented both RUNX1 mutations and RUNX1 - PRDM16 fusion .
Macrophages can be activated in a classical or alternative manner in parallel with the T ( H ) 1 / T ( H ) 2 dichotomy , respectively .
In the present study , we found significant binding of nicked beta2GPI to AS4 . 5 ( K ( D ) = 3 . 27 x 10 ( 6 ) M ( - 1 ) ) .
WNT / TCF signaling through LEF1 and HOXB9 mediates lung adenocarcinoma metastasis .
Anti - endosialin was capable of preventing pericyte tube formation in culture and inhibited migration .
Vitamin E inhibits experimental carcinogenesis and tumour angiogenesis .
SAHA enhanced acetylation of histone H3 in Bim promoter region , while E1A upregulated Egr - 1 , which was directly involved in Bim transactivation .
METHOD : Dideoxy sequencing and fluorescent single strand conformation analysis were used to screen for mutations in exon 15 of BRAF in 183 cases of metastatic melanoma .
A 4 . 0 kb mRNA of the murine UFO homolog is expressed in a variety of different mouse tissues .
We have found that LPA downregulates tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases ( TIMPs ) .
TB4 expression in B16F10 cells was increased by hypoxia conditioning in a time - dependent manner .
Similar translocations are found in mouse plasmacytomas and both diseases involve interchanges between one of the immunoglobulin loci and DNA in the vicinity of the myc gene .
In both growth states , PDBu caused loss of protein kinase C activity , which reflected a loss in protein mass as determined by immunoblotting with antiserum to protein kinase C .
Here , we show that NCAM - deficient beta cell tumors grew leaky blood vessels with perturbed pericyte - endothelial cell - cell interactions and deficient perivascular deposition of ECM components .
The p75 receptor belongs to the tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) family of death receptors and has been suggested as a receptor that mediates apoptosis in neuronal and NB cells .
Patterns of X - chromosome inactivation , mutations in the K - ras gene , mutations or allelic loss of the p53 gene , or human papillomavirus detection were identical in both endometrial and ovarian lesions in three of the cases suggesting that those three cases represented single primary tumors with metastases .
Tumors greater than 35 mm3 treated with IR 24 hours previously or with TEMF had decreased blood vessels in the subcortex and more endothelial pseudopods projecting into hypoxic , HIF positive areas than tumors from the control group .
In this review , this evidence is surveyed together with evidence from analogous situations , such as tumour cell migration and invasiveness .
These findings provide the first evidence that the AT2 receptor mediates a stimulation of in vivo angiogenesis and indicate that ANG II is a humoral regulator of peripheral angiogenesis involving two receptor subtypes with opposing actions .
The concentrations of urine IL - 8 / Cr were significantly higher in patients than in controls ( 48 . 9 + / - 194 . 4 vs . 5 . 2 + / - 13 . 8 pg / mg Cr , P less than 0 . 001 ) .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : U - 995 was designed to study human umbilical vein endothelial cell ( HUVEC ) migration and proliferation in vitro and angiogenesis induced by TNF alpha in chicken chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) .
We have investigated the mechanism by which the simian virus 40 large T antigen ( SVLT ) interferes with the differentiation of C2 myoblasts .
The activity of succinate dehydrogenase was inhibited by 70 % by 3 - BrPA treatment .
Human cytomegalovirus elevates levels of the cellular protein p53 in infected fibroblasts .
TUNEL data are reported as percentage apoptotic cells .
These findings also illustrate an operational link between VPF / VEGF induction of EC gene expression and VPF / VEGF enhancement of microvascular permeability , suggesting that these distinct biological activities may act accordingly to stimulate EC migration during angiogenesis .
More recent data have demonstrated the existence of two human nm23 gene homologues , nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 , and have shown that deletion of nm23 - H1 alleles occurs in some colon carcinomas associated with poor prognosis .
Double mutants developed oocytes and became sterile females that produced only aberrant embryos and showed elevated risk for invasive ovarian tumors .
Surprisingly , however , further phosphorylation of this protein on addition of phorbol ester was greatly reduced .
RESULTS : Most tumors less than 35 mm3 were white but tumors greater than 35 mm3 were pink and had a vascularized capsule .
In 17 rabbits , a 2 - cm strip of latissimus dorsi was woven into the parascapular fat pad on one side , with the contralateral fat pad serving as a control .
This suggests that the activity of topo I inhibitors will not differ across various tumor stages , pathology , and patient gender .
With the appropriate agent , targeting endosialin may interfere with blood vessel growth during tumor development .
Less than 15 % of the glucose uptake was affected by the 1 , 2 , 3 - benzenetricarboxylate inhibition of the malate - citrate shuttle .
The results of LDH5 expression were correlated to clinico - pathological data as well as to patient ' s survival .
Interestingly , c - Ski overexpression resulted in extensive acceleration of the growth of subcutaneous xenografts in BALB / c nu / nu female mice ( 6 weeks of age ) .
Excluding N - stage , vascular grade was the only independent prognostic factor ( P = 0 . 007 ) .
The relationship between TS and DPD expression and clinicopathological data was analyzed .
Importantly , the addition of a neutralizing VEGF antibody abolished M - CSF - induced blood vessel formation .
RESULTS : In this article , we report the effects of altering RASSF1C expression in human breast cancer cells .
We measured serum IL - 8 and urine IL - 8 levels in patients with NHL , and we compared the concentrations with those of control individuals .
The safety and efficacy of rofecoxib treatment were determined based on subjective patient reports and physical examinations during follow - up clinic visits .
Selective inhibition of nuclear factor - kappaB by nuclear factor - kappaB essential modulator - binding domain peptide suppresses the metastasis of highly metastatic oral squamous cell carcinoma .
We assessed survivin expression in breast carcinomas correlating results with expression of other antiapoptotic ( bcl - 2 , bcl - x ) and proapoptotic ( bax ) markers , with prognostic parameters , and with prognosis .
Furthermore , in comparison with native OPN , thrombin - cleaved OPN stimulated a greater rate of EC migration in vitro , which was additive to the increased migration associated with induction of alpha v beta 3 .
317615 x 2HCl was an active antitumor agent against the MX - 1 xenograft and increased the tumor growth delay produced by paclitaxel by 1 . 7 - fold and the tumor growth delay produced by carboplatin by 3 . 8 - fold .
Genotypes of 155 patients with cervical cancer and 160 healthy control subjects were determined using polymerase chain reaction - based restriction fragment length polymorphism ( PCR - RFLP ) .
The data indicate that endosialin is strongly expressed by pericytes during periods of active angiogenesis during embryonic and tumor development .
The level of apoptosis correlated directly with the expression level of the receptor , indicating that p75 may activate the cell death program directly .
A preponderance of work has been focused on the molecular mechanisms underlying this effect , with the expectation that a mechanistic understanding may lead to novel therapeutic approaches .
Immune complex kinase assays in the simian virus 40 system were performed by incubation of immunoprecipitates containing tumor antigens with [ gamma - 32P ] ATP , followed by analysis of any phosphoacceptor proteins .
Dopamine regulates phosphorylation of VEGF receptor 2 by engaging Src - homology - 2 - domain - containing protein tyrosine phosphatase 2 .
CONCLUSIONS : DCE - MRI permits a noninvasive evaluation of tumour microcirculation and in particular of its dynamic characteristics and vascularity before and after antiangiogenic treatment .
Neovascularization is associated with mechanical strain - dependent induction of angiogenic factors such as CCN1 , an immediate - early gene - encoded matricellular molecule critical for vascular development and repair .
Our recent studies show that progestins induce vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) in breast cancer cells that express mutant p53 protein .
By contrast , ovarian tumors displayed significantly higher levels of hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 where expression was observed in tumor and stromal cells .
Differential sensitivity to these agents implies that more than one endothelial cell type must be used in proliferation assays to screen for novel anti - angiogenic compounds .
The capacity of insulin to stimulate the VEGF promoter linked to a luciferase reporter gene was characterized in transient transfection assays .
Angiostatin and thalidomide both inhibited tumor growth by about 55 % .
Meanwhile , the adhesion and invasion ability of MCF - 7 cells were sharply inhibited when treated with different concentrations of curcumin .
Therapeutic targeting of the survivin pathway in cancer : initiation of mitochondrial apoptosis and suppression of tumor - associated angiogenesis .
The increased transport rate is a consequence of an increased number of transporters in the transformed cells .
CONCLUSIONS : These observations suggested that several subtypes of the AQP family play a role in human breast carcinogenesis .
Lymphoma prevalence was minimal in the T lineage but significant , although low ( 3 - 15 % ) , in the B lineage .
METHODS : Transplant tumor model was induced by subcutaneous inoculation of 2 x 10 ( 6 ) Lewis lung cancer ( LLC ) cells into the back of C57BL / 6 mice .
Patients were followed up at 1 month and 3 months after treatment and thereafter at 3 - month intervals .
Differential diagnosis for synchronous primary ovarian and endometrial cancers and metastatic cancer .
Thalidomide at the concentrations of 0 . 01 microM and 10 microM inhibited VEGF secretion into supernatants , decreased the number of formed capillary tubes and increased cell adhesion to collagen .
RESULTS : Our results revealed that docetaxel and ATRA were synergistically cytotoxic and apoptotic in DU - 145 cells , in a dose - and time dependent manner .
Thus , it is highly unlikely that the p53 molecule per se carries intrinsic or even associated kinase activities .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is a mitogen that acts exclusively on endothelial cells .
U - 995 is composed of two single peptides with molecular mass of 10 and 14 kDa , respectively .
2 - BE is a hemolytic agent that induces hemangiosarcomas in mice .
Induction of gelatinases ( matrix metalloproteinase 2 and 9 ) , the serine protease tissue plasminogen activator and plasmin by DCN transfection in MCE cells leads to extracellular proteolysis and to release of matrix - bound VEGF and activation of angiogenesis .
BACKGROUND : Breast cancers have higher than normal glucose metabolism , but the mechanism of glucose entry into these tumors is not well understood .
In addition , these clones also exhibit aggressive tumorigenic phenotypes in vivo with short latency in tumor formation in both immunodeficient and syngeneic mice .
BACKGROUND : The effects of a rectified semi - sinewave signal ( 15 mT amplitude , 120 pulses per second , EMF Therapeutics , Inc . ) ( TEMF ) alone and in combination with gamma irradiation ( IR ) therapy in nude mice bearing a human MDA MB231 breast cancer xenograft were tested .
A specific histone deacetylase ( HDAc ) inhibitor , trichostatin A ( TSA ) , alleviates Evi - 1 - mediated repression of TGF - beta signaling , suggesting that HDAc is involved in transcriptional repression by Evi - 1 .
Impaired coronary collateral vessel development in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy .
Grape seed extract inhibits angiogenesis via suppression of the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway .
This is a randomized , open label , prospective study that examined the effect of preventive zoledronic acid treatment on the development of bone metastases in patients with recurrent solid tumors , without bone metastases at the time of randomization .
Similar to tumors expressing dominant - negative TGF - beta type II receptor , histochemical studies revealed less fibrosis and increased angiogenesis in xenografted tumors expressing c - Ski compared to control tumors .
The present study evaluated the effect of cumene hydroperoxide ( Cum - OOH ) on the induction of activator protein - 1 ( AP - 1 ) , which is linked to the expression of genes regulating cell proliferation , growth and transformation .
Maternal endothelial dysfunction in preeclampsia is associated with increased soluble fms - like tyrosine kinase - 1 ( sFlt - 1 ) , a circulating antagonist of vascular endothelial growth factor and placental growth factor .
A lesion was considered subfoveal if it extended underneath the geometric center of the FAZ .
The results showed that expression levels of both nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 mRNA varied in normal buccal mucosa , leukoplakia , adjacent nontumorous mucosa , submandibular gland , CBM and lymph nodes with or without metastasis .
Integrins and growth factors are capable of activating the ras / MAP kinase pathway in vitro , yet how these signals influence endothelial cells during angiogenesis is unknown .
This correlation was due to a higher number of blood vessels rather than to a larger size of the blood vessels .
Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) , like other DNA tumor viruses , induces morphological transformation of cells in vitro and stimulates host cell macromolecular synthesis in infected cells .
Anchorage - independent cell growth is indicative of cell transformation resulting in acquisition of tumorigenic potential .
On the other hand , MnSO4 only induced transformation in Rat 6 / c - myc cells , but not the parental Rat 6 cells .
This remodeling process seems to be mainly flow - mediated .
The purpose of the present study was to measure the MVD and VEGF expression in a cohort of patients with betel - associated OSCC and to evaluate for possible clinicopathologic correlations .
The prognostic value of PE was also evaluated by dividing MDS / AML patients into high and low PE groups using the median PE level of normal controls as the cut - off .
Additionally , impaired placental angiogenesis and uteroplacental blood flow appears to be an early defect in both the hyperthermic and adolescent paradigms .
The N - myc proto - oncogene encodes a transcription factor which regulates cell growth and differentiation .
2G7 did not inhibit MDA - 231 primary tumor or metastases formation , nor did it stimulate NK cell - mediated cytotoxicity in beige NK - deficient nude mice .
Angiogenic activity in samples of patients from the control group was generally inhibitory due to PEDF , and inhibition was blocked by neutralizing antibodies to PEDF .
Younger patients and eyes with higher refractive error appear more likely to benefit from PDT with verteporfin .
Angiogenic factors , in particular vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and the angiopoietins , Ang - 1 and - 2 , have recently generated significant interest , especially in oncology .
Upon initiation of angiogenesis with basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) on the chick chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) , endothelial cell mitogen - activated protein ( MAP ) kinase ( ERK ) activity was detected as early as 5 min yet was sustained for at least 20 h .
Anoikis was preceded by induction and transloction of a 45 - kDa clusterin isoform to the nucleus .
Although in vivo studies have shown that such inhibition stems from complex interactions of immune cells and the production of IFN - gamma and other downstream angiostatic chemokines , the mechanisms involved are still poorly defined .
Our laboratory has provided evidence that thrombin activates angiogenesis , a process which is essential in tumor growth and metastasis .
METHODS : Ovarian cancer SKOV3 cells were transfected with hPNAS - 4 - plasmid , and cell proliferation was evaluated by MTT assay ; apoptosis was examined by DNA ladder , Hoechst33258 staining and flow - cytometric assays .
Mechanisms of pericyte recruitment in tumour angiogenesis : a new role for metalloproteinases .
Although only further research will determine the exact nature of VEGF ' s role after seizures , preliminary data indicate that VEGF plays a protective role after seizures .
Blocking Dex - induced MKP - 1 induction using small interfering RNA increased ERK1 / 2 and JNK phosphorylation and decreased cell survival .
Leukemic K562 , U937 and HL60 cells expressed Glut - 1 transporter protein .
Remarkably , final sigma mRNA was undetectable in 45 of 48 primary breast carcinomas .
MMP - 2 was increased with malignancy , but no expression of MMP - 9 was seen .
Topoisomerase I ( topo I ) is an important target for the treatment of malignant disease , especially colorectal cancer .
We have modelled multiple stages of malignant transformation of human endothelial cells ( ECs ) by overexpressing the catalytic subunit of human telomerase ( hTERT ) , together with SV40 T antigen ( SV40T ) and oncogenic N - ras .
Therefore , we used a targeted mutant mouse model to test the hypothesis that monoallelic deletion of beclin 1 promotes tumorigenesis .
This chapter provides a new intravital microscopic method for detecting and measuring NO - dependent angiogenesis in a mouse model .
The structure of the myc gene has been elucidated from studies on translocated versions of the gene .
An evaluation of low molecular weight heparin and hyperbaric oxygen treatment in the prevention of intra - abdominal adhesions and wound healing .
Promoter hypermethylation of APC was observed in 54 . 65 per cent ( 47 of 86 ) of cases .
The expressions of 14 - 3 - 3zeta and beta - catenin were detected by western blotting , double labeling immunofluorescence , confocal laser scanning microscopy and immunohistochemistry .
BACKGROUND : The PI3K - Akt signal pathway plays a key role in tumorigenesis and the development of drug - resistance .
In a mouse model of endotoxemia , DSCR - 1s - deficient mice demonstrated increased sepsis mortality , whereas adenovirus - mediated DSCR - 1s overexpression protected against LPS - induced lethality .
The expression of 14 - 3 - 3zeta was upregulated in stage I NSCLC .
The average IMVD in positive and negative cervical lymphatic metastasis was ( 26 . 33 + / - 9 . 70 ) and ( 17 . 68 + / - 6 . 06 ) respectively , and the IMVD with positive lymphatic metastasis tumors was statistical significantly higher than those with negative cervical lymphatic metastasis tumors ( P less than 0 . 01 ) .
The ability of CLA to inhibit angiogenesis may contribute to its efficacy as a chemopreventive agent .
Tumor angiogenesis has been related to the initiation as well as progression toward more aggressive behavior of human tumors .
We show that restoration of FOXO3a in FOXO3a - deficient LAC cells increases sensitivity to apoptosis caused by a DNA - damaging intermediate of NNK .
We have investigated the expression of the CD40 - CD154 system in 24 primary cultures derived from renal cell carcinomas , its correlation with tumor stage and its potential functional significance .
The rats were divided into 4 groups .
The methylation status was correlated to the clinical manifestations and to PTEN expression , which was analyzed by both Western blot and immunohistochemistry .
The disease progressed in 8 patients , despite an initial response .
The virus - altered cells continued to proliferate in the presence of high levels of extracellular calcium but exhibited alterations in normal keratinocyte terminal differentiation that appear to be specific to the particular oncogene .
Under similar conditions , both uninfected HUVECs and HUVECs infected with AdCMV . beta gal did not differentiate .
CONCLUSIONS : PLGA microspheres with an open porous structure allowed significant amount of heparin immobilization and bFGF loading .
The antiangiogenic agent linomide inhibits the growth rate of von Hippel - Lindau paraganglioma xenografts to mice .
METHODS : MSCs from Sprague - Dawley ( SD ) rats were isolated and cultured in vitro .
Reduced oncogenicity of p190 Bcr / Abl F - actin - binding domain mutants .
High - affinity binding is reduced in EGFR . TDM / 18 - 26 , although the t1 / 2 of receptor internalization is not prolonged .
Endosialin / TEM 1 / CD248 is a pericyte marker of embryonic and tumor neovascularization .
Four patients received bevacizumab at a dose of 10 mg / m2 ; irinotecan was given at a dose of 125 mg / m2 every week for 3 weeks .
The construction of animals doubly mutant for brca2 and the apoptotic gene tp53 ( p53 ) rescued brca2 - dependent sex reversal .
Trib1 and Evi1 were up - regulated due to retroviral insertions , and coexpression of these genes significantly accelerated the onset of Hoxa9 / Meis1 - induced AML , suggesting that Trib1 and Evi1 are the key collaborators .
Such evidence indicates that MTSS1 as a multiple functional molecular player and has an important role in development , carcinogenesis and metastasis .
Enhanced expression of PTEN by gene transfer is sufficient to reverse the malignant phenotype of ovarian cancer cells and transfection of ovarian cancer cells with wild - type PTEN gene might be another novel approach for therapeutic intervention in ovarian cancer .
RESULTS : 89 . 5 % ( n = 238 ) of NSCLC revealed LDH5 expression whereas LDH5 expression was not detected in non neoplastic lung tissues ( n = 34 ) ( p < 0 . 0001 ) .
The p53 protein functions to prevent tumour development by inhibiting the outgrowth of stressed or damaged cells .
Further , delivery of an appropriate combination of DAPT and VEGF from an injectable alginate hydrogel system into ischemic hindlimbs led to a faster recovery of blood flow than VEGF or DAPT alone ; perfusion levels reached 80 % of the normal level by week 4 with combined DAPT and VEGF delivery .
Furthermore , beclin 1 heterozygous disruption results in increased cellular proliferation and reduced autophagy in vivo .
This in vitro morphogenesis was inhibited by the addition of anti - sialyl Le ( x ) / Le ( a ) or anti - beta ( 1 ) - integrin antibodies , which led to the formation of cancer cell aggregates that were independent from the F - 2 cell networks .
These results suggest a role for HS chains of perlecan in improving graft patency by selectively promoting endothelial cell proliferation while modulating platelet adhesion .
Elevated expression of the junB proto - oncogene is essential for v - fos induced transformation of Rat - 1 cells .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : In the present study , we investigated the effects of 2ME2 alone and in combination with paclitaxel , an active agent in recurrent or advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
We hypothesized that the hemolysis induced by 2 - BE would result in local tissue hypoxia , a well - documented trigger for endothelial cell proliferation leading to hemangiosarcoma .
Recently , considerable attentions have been devoted to the physiological roles of angiopoietin ( Ang ) - 1 and - 2 as regulatory factors of VEGF .
In accord with our hypothesis , in a variety of different FH - deficient tissues , including a novel murine model of Fh1 - deficient smooth muscle , we show a striking and progressive upregulation of a tumorigenic metabolic profile , as manifested by increased PKM2 and LDHA protein .
Finally , annexin II down - regulation was positively associated with lymph node metastasis , suggesting that it may be a prognostic factor in NPC .
We conclude that GR - mediated MAPK inactivation contributes to cell survival and that the potential transcriptional targets of this inhibition can be identified from large scale gene array analysis .
Disabling mutations and deletions of p53 occur in 50 % of human tumours .
Induction of these genes also occurred in diverticulitis and digestive neoplasms such as gastric and esophageal carcinomas .
However , most current anti - VEGF agents often cause some side effects when given chronically .
Accumulating evidences indicate that receptor activator of NF - kB ligand ( RANKL ) is the ultimate extracellular mediator that stimulates osteoclast differentiation into mature osteoclasts .
Prognostic significance of heat shock protein 27 ( HSP27 ) in patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma .
Thus , 20 - HETE may be involved in the regulation of EC functions , such as angiogenesis .
In contrast , rap1GAPII , a negative regulator of Rap1 , did not inhibit ephrin - B1 - induced membrane ruffling .
Ischemia , involving restricted blood flow to tissues is the most common consequence of vessel dysfunction resulting in the disruption of oxygen and nutrient delivery and the accumulation of waste metabolites .
Herein we show that Cbl can negatively regulate another signaling molecule , namely theSrc - family kinase Hck by targeting it for degradation .
In addition , the results of the previously tested transketolase like 1 protein ( TKTL1 ) expression were correlated to LDH5 expression .
Strong CXCR4 expression was significantly associated with lymph node metastases ( P = 0 . 028 ) and higher stages III / IV ( P = 0 . 047 ) , and further tended to be correlated with a reduced 5 - year survival rate ( 42 . 6 % vs . 53 . 9 % ; P = 0 . 1 ) .
The increased expression of MMP - 9 was also shown in CNE1 - GL cells by Western blot analysis .
Thalidomide in concentrations from 0 . 1 microM to 10 microM did not change cell proliferation of 72 - h cell cultures .
Several such agents are currently in clinical trials , and many others are under development .
The expression of metallothionein - 1 ( Mt - 1 ) gene , which is regulated by GR , was induced significantly by the combination of DMI and FA , and enhanced significantly by pretreatment with FA but not DMI .
This creates a network of Hedgehog signaling that determines the malignant behavior of the tumor cells .
Furthermore , it was showed that GSH depletion induced by MOG rendered some leukemia cell lines more sensitive to arsenic trioxide ( As2O3 ) , doxorubicin or cisplatin .
The human T - cell leukemia viruses HTLV - I and HTLV - II are unique among the transforming retroviruses of vertebrates in their ability to transform human T cells in vitro and in their close association with human malignancies ( T - cell lymphomas and leukemia ) .
We herein report the effects of novel developed material , collagen - poly glycolic acid fiber hybrid matrix , being used together with basic fibroblast growth factor to promote wound healing of full - thickness skin defects on the back of type 2 diabetic Lepr ( db ) mice .
Recently VEGF - B and VEGF - C , two new VEGF family members , have been identified that bind to the tyrosine kinase receptors flt - 1 ( VEGFR1 ) , KDR ( VEGFR2 ) , and flt - 4 ( VEGFR3 ) .
The findings are discussed in relation to previous morphologic studies , reports of in vitro mast - cell - mediated tumor cytotoxicity , and the role of mast cells in angiogenesis and connective tissue proliferation .
Experiments with a temperature - sensitive mutant of Rous sarcoma virus demonstrated that a single oncogene product is sufficient to inhibit the synthesis .
RESULTS : Using ICG - DEP , CNV feeder vessels were closed with single pulse laser energy , delivering as little as 0 . 6 to 1 . 8 J of energy to the fundus , producing no visible change in the fundus .
Hematogenous metastasis in gastric cancer requires isolated tumor cells and expression of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 1 .
It is concluded that curcumin inhibits the adhesion and invasion of MCF - 7 cells through down - regulating the protein expression of uPA via of NF - kappaB activation .
There were no differences in NME mRNA levels between these two cell lines , suggesting that expression of these proteins is regulated at a post - transcriptional level .
METHODOLOGY / PRINCIPAL FINDINGS : Here , we propose a novel HDAC inhibitor , N - Hydroxy - 4 - ( 4 - phenylbutyryl - amino ) benzamide ( HTPB ) , as a potential chemotherapeutic drug for solid tumors .
The latter effect persisted even with the late addition of CHX .
CONCLUSIONS : These results suggest that the anti - angiogenic effects of U - 995 may be be due to interference with the proliferation and migration of HUVECs as well as inhibition of collagenolysis , thereby leading to inhibition of both angiogenesis and tumor cell growth .
The cell cycle progression and sub - G1 population were analysed by flow cytometry .
Thus , allogeneic injection of FM - MSC may be a new therapeutic strategy for the treatment of severe peripheral vascular disease .
For patients with limb threatening ischaemia the only option for relief of rest pain or gangraena is amputation .
[ Expression of Merlin protein in non - small cell lung carcinoma and the clinical significance ] .
METHODOLOGY AND RESULTS : In this study , we demonstrate the molecular mechanism of M - CSF - induced VEGF production .
Further analysis reveals that although LMP1 ( TRADD ) promotes cell growth , it does not prevent the eventual onset of senescence and the expression of tumor suppressor p16 ( Ink4a ) .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , one of the most potent angiogenic factors , stimulates endothelial cell proliferation and induces the angiogenesis .
TEL , a putative tumor suppressor , modulates cell growth and cell morphology of ras - transformed cells while repressing the transcription of stromelysin - 1 .
The inhibition of platelet activation with prostaglandin E1 ( PGE ( 1 ) ) attenuated the invasive capacity of SKOV3 cells .
We screened 200 RTK target - based compounds and identified one ( TKI - 31 ) that potently inhibited VEGFR - 2 kinase activity ( IC50 = 0 . 596 microM ) .
To this end , we generated endothelial cell lines stably expressing vGPCR or key KSHV latently expressed proteins ( vCyclin , vFlip , and LANA1 ) .
Therefore we aimed to study the effects of simvastatin ( Sim ) on malignant B cells derived from patients with CLL and mechanisms of action of the drug .
We tested the epigenetic silencing hypothesis and evaluated the biological influence of KISS1 methylation on its expression and clinical relevance in bladder cancer .
Correlation with clinico - pathological factors including LVI as retrieved by routine haematoxylin and eosin ( H . E . ) stained sections and the eligibility for the prediction of ALNM was assessed .
Anti - metastasis effects of gallic acid on gastric cancer cells involves inhibition of NF - kappaB activity and downregulation of PI3K / AKT / small GTPase signals .
Anti - Fas treatment of these cells caused a significant decrease in p120 - GAP levels , ERK - 1 levels , and phosphorylation , as well as Grb2 - Sosl and MEK - 1 - ERK - 1 association .
The amount of radioactivity released into the medium during the subsequent 24 to 72 h was measured , and it was found that all - trans - RA treatment inhibited degradation of extracellular matrix and type IV collagen by 50 to 60 % .
Temporal changes in physiological spaces , protein expression of transporters and enzymes , and enalapril removal were appraised in the metastatic liver tumor model developed from male Wag / Rij rats after the intraportal injection of CC531 colon adenocarcinoma cells ; sham - operated preparations received PBS .
Normal cells contain suppressor gene ( s ) which safeguard these cells against transformation by the product of the transforming Ha - ras - 1 oncogene .
Whole body glucose use was 55 % lower in patients than in control subjects ( 17 + / - 3 mumol / kg / minute versus 38 + / - 3 mumol / kg / minute , P = 0 . 002 ) , consistent with insulin resistance in cancer .
TSP interacts with a number of proteases and receptors and in this way inhibits stimulation of angiogenesis .
In this model , UFT showed a strong angiogenesis - inhibitory effect , whereas 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) and doxifluridine were less effective .
The ras - encoded proteins are similar to regulatory G - proteins and are candidates for the unknown G - protein that modulates phosphatidylinositol ( PI ) turnover .
Microscopic technique for the detection of nitric oxide - dependent angiogenesis in an animal model .
The resulting clusters were correlated to patients with or without lymph node involvement .
CONCLUSION : The majority ( 81 % ) of breast carcinomas show survivin expression which correlates with bcl - x , another antiapoptotic marker , and both markers tend to correlate with prognosis .
Microsatellite regions in the type II transforming growth factor - beta receptor ( TGF - beta RII ) gene appear to be targets for mutation in some cancers displaying microsatellite instability ( replication error phenotype , RER + ) .
Hepatitis B virus integration event in human chromosome 17p near the p53 gene identifies the region of the chromosome commonly deleted in virus - positive hepatocellular carcinomas .
In vitro studies have shown that the mast cell seems to behave as a helper cell for capillary endothelial cells , in some way speeding up their rate of directional migration .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , fibroblast growth factor ( FGF ) , recombinant proteins and bone marrow stem cells are currently used therapeutic stimulators for angiogenesis .
Ischemic cardiac muscle is additionally vulnerable because reperfusion is essential for survival but reperfusion itself poses additional stress principally from increased production of free radicals during reoxygenation .
Members of the src and ras oncogene families supplant the epidermal growth factor requirement of BALB / MK - 2 keratinocytes and induce distinct alterations in their terminal differentiation program .
Animals were sacrificed at 3 - week intervals from 0 to 39 weeks after treatments began .
Pretreatment with aspirin and nimesulide inhibited EC9706 and EC109 cell growth in a time and dose - dependent manner , accompanied with a decrease of prostaglandin E2 production .
We also examined cell proliferation , migration , and anti - apoptotic activity in response to stromal cell - derived factor ( SDF ) - 1alpha and evaluated SDF - 1alpha / CXCR4 signaling pathways .
Nitric oxide synthase inhibition results in synergistic anti - tumour activity with melphalan and tumour necrosis factor alpha - based isolated limb perfusions .
Finally , sections of the control and experimental flaps were analyzed histologically .
Angiogenesis - a novel therapeutic approach for ischemic heart disease .
RESULTS : VEGF isoforms and its receptors ' mRNA were expressed in neuroblastoma and control tissues .
The chromosomal translocation t ( 11 : 14 ) is associated with human lymphoid neoplasia affecting centrocytic B - cells of intermediate differentiation .
METHODS : Using two - dimensional electrophoresis and liquid chromatography - electrospray ionization - tandem mass spectrometry ( LC - ESI - MS / MS ) , we analyzed differentially displayed proteomics of human hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines Hep3B , MHCC97L , MHCC97H with different metastasic potential .
Reactive astrocytic processes and phagocytic cells are also present in the grafts .
Binding of anticalretinin antiserum to living mesothelial cells was consistently documented in all four cases investigated .
In addition , silencing of S6K1 induced apoptosis accompanied by a decrease in the phosphorylation of BAD and Bcl - 2 , similar to that observed with sunitinib treatment .
Downregulation of E - cadherin occurred at the level of transcription or of mRNA stability .
This has been suggested as one of the mechanisms to explain the mammography paradox for women aged 40 - 49 years .
In contrast , continuous ( 24h ) treatment with doxorubicin reduced the number of living cells with no parallel raise in the amount of dead cells .
The reduced CK1delta activity did not affect early lesion formation during tumorigenesis , suggesting that impaired CK1delta activity reduces the probability for outgrowth of in situ carcinomas to invasive carcinomas .
The results show that , without affecting in vitro human PMN viability and chemokine - receptor expression , Hyp ( as stable dicyclohexylammonium salt ) was able to inhibit in a dose - dependent manner their chemotaxis and chemoinvasion ( IC50 = 1 microM for both ) ; this effect was associated with a reduced expression of the adhesion molecule CD11b by formyl - Met - Leu - Phe - stimulated neutrophils and block of LE - triggered activation of the gelatinase matrix metalloproteinase - 9 .
Statistical analysis revealed a significantly inverse correlation between AI and IMVD ( r = - 0 . 53 , P less than 0 . 01 ) .
We have used a quantitative assay in vitro to demonstrate that mast cells release a factor that significantly increases bovine capillary endothelial cell migration .
VEGF165 also mediated the binding of a soluble NRP1 dimer to cells expressing KDR only , confirming the formation of such complexes .
Two separate regions of Evi - 1 are responsible for this repression , one of which is the first zinc - finger domain .
Co - treatment with inhibitors of autophagy results in marked enhancement of cell death .
In addition , the endostatin vector treatment completely prevented the formation of pulmonary micrometastases in Lewis lung carcinoma ( P = 0 . 0001 ) .
Tissue factor ( TF ) is an essential initiator of blood coagulation that is expressed in various stages of atherosclerotic lesions in humans and other animals .
Ectopic decorin expression up - regulates VEGF expression in mouse cerebral endothelial cells via activation of the transcription factors Sp1 , HIF1alpha , and Stat3 .
Recent studies using avian retrovirus - mediated introduction of oncogenes into a small subset of somatic mammary cells suggest that polyoma middle T antigen ( PyMT ) may also preferentially transform stem / progenitor cells .
We show mutation of S727 to the phosphomimetic residue Glu , and inactivation of Y705 ( Y705F / S727E ) resulted in a remarkable growth advantage in low - serum , enhanced anchorage - independent growth in soft agar , and increased tumorigenicity in nonobese diabetic / severe combined immunodeficient ( NOD / SCID ) mice , possibly by direct activation of downstream proto - oncogenes c - myc , mcl - 1 , and survivin .
We found that GSE could directly inhibit the kinase activity of purified VEGF receptor 2 , a novel activity of GSE that has not been characterized .
Moreover , HTPB inhibited activity of MMP2 and MMP9 , reduced integrin - beta1 / focal adhesion complex formation and decreased pericellular poly - fibronectin assemblies .
Forty - seven specimens resected from patients with stage II and III squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) of the esophagus were studied using immunohistochemical staining .
Serum deprivation - induced apoptosis of BHK ( + TF ) cells was characterized by apoptotic blebs , nuclei with chromatin - condensed bodies , DNA degradation , and activation of caspase 3 .
Additional grafted rats treated with spironolactone ( n = 6 ) or PBS ( n = 8 ) were sacrificed on day 12 for quantitative RT - PCR analysis for mechanistic studies .
Furthermore , suppression of NF - kappaB activation decreased the transcript levels and BMP - 2 - induced phosphorylation of Smad1 / 5 / 8 , critical downstream targets of BMP - 2 signaling in PC cells .
A significant increase was observed in flt - 1 ( P less than 0 . 001 ) , KDR ( P = 0 . 02 ) , and flt - 4 ( P = 0 . 01 ) but not VEGF - B ( P = 0 . 82 ) or VEGF - C ( P = 0 . 52 ) expression in clear cell compared with chromophil ( papillary ) carcinomas .
RESULTS : Proteomic findings indicated that adenosine triphosphate synthase alpha chain was up - regulated , whereas annexin II , annexin V , beta ( 2 ) - tubulin , and profilin 1 were down - regulated .
Vascular grade was not related to histology , grade , proliferation index ( Ki67 ) , or EGFR or p53 expression .
It has a mitogenic activity for MEF cells , as demonstrated by an immediate induction of cell doubling time .
Molecular analyses of tumors in beclin 1 heterozygous mice show that the remaining wild - type allele is neither mutated nor silenced .
The temporal expression ( percentage positivity per 1000 analysed cells ) VEGF proteins over the course of CML were studied using the immunohistochemical technique utilizing relevant monoclonal antibodies .
It also promotes endothelial differentiation into capillary - like structures in an in vitro assay and is angiogenic in the chick chorionallantoic membrane .
DMI inhibited cell proliferation in a time - dependent manner .
In breast cancer , there are conflicting studies questioning the role of angiogenin .
Thirty uterine cervix specimens sampled following conization or total hysterectomy were studied using histology , histoenzymology ( vessel phosphatase alkaline activity ) , and immunohistochemistry ( demonstration of laminin and type IV collagen in epithelium and vessel basement membranes ) .
Adenovirus - mediated gene transfer of endostatin in vivo results in high level of transgene expression and inhibition of tumor growth and metastases .
Cells were treated with curcumin and examined for cell viability by MTT assay .
Low density lipoprotein receptor - related protein - 1 ( LRP - 1 ) is a catabolic receptor for extracellular matrix ( ECM ) structural proteins and for proteins that bind to ECM .
The dynamic uptake of the glucose analogue [ 18F ] FDG was measured in diseased nodes and upper arm skeletal muscle in both metabolic states .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) - induced receptor phosphorylation is the crucial step for initiating downstream signaling pathways that lead to angiogenesis or related pathophysiological outcomes .
Both groups believe that pulp revascularization and regeneration will be viable treatment modalities in the future .
The development of hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) presumably occurs in multiple steps and is influenced by numerous factors .
Here we report a zebrafish brca2 insertional mutant that shares phenotypes with human patients and identifies a novel brca2 function in oogenesis .
N - myc augments death and attenuates protective effects of Bcl - 2 in trophically stressed neuroblastoma cells .
Substantial studies have demonstrated that PTEN can inhibit cell proliferation , migration and invasion of many cancer cells .
Mutations in the genes encoding the three other succinate dehydrogenase subunits ( SDHB , SDHC and SDHD ) have been identified in patients affected by familial or ' apparently sporadic ' paraganglioma and / or pheochromocytoma , an autosomal inherited cancer - susceptibility syndrome .
DLC1 protein level is elevated in more than 90 % of human breast tumors .
Blood and vascular disorders underlie a plethora of pathologic conditions and are the single most frequent cause of human disease .
In the present study , a novel inhibitor of angiogenesis was synthesized by covalently linking a nonanticoagulating derivative of heparin , heparin adipic hydrazide ( HAH ) , by an acid - labile bond to the antiangiogenic steroid , cortisol .
The polycomb gene Bmi - 1 is required for the self - renewal of stem cells from diverse tissues , including the central nervous system ( CNS ) .
Enoxaparine Na had no harmful effects on wound healing , and HBO therapy increased the process of wound healing .
M - CSF signals through the MAPK / ERK pathway via Sp1 to induce VEGF production and induces angiogenesis in vivo .
Relevant differentially expressed genes were validated by either quantitative real - time polymerase chain reaction or immunohistochemistry on tissue microarrays .
The heat shock proteins ( HSPs ) centered and NF - kappaB centered networks were also enriched in the result , which may imply the key function of inflaming on metastasis .
All wounds were fully re - epithelialized by 10 days post - injury .
Induction of IL - 8 was UV - B dose dependent and blocked by cyclohexamide , indicating that de novo protein synthesis is required for its expression .
These cells , but not control cells , showed altered growth properties and anchorage - independent growth in soft agar .
In vitro migration and invasion were assessed in these cells , and the NF - kappaB activities and expression of NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules were also examined .
96 , 2811 - 2816 .
Glut - 2 was expressed in all of the tumors , but the intensity of staining was not consistently stronger than that seen in healthy breast .
Integrin alphavbeta3 requirement for sustained mitogen - activated protein kinase activity during angiogenesis .
Histopathological development of gastric tumors induced by N - methyl - N ' - nitro - N - nitrosoguanidine in rats .
An angiostatin - mimetic activity has recently been observed using a polyclonal antibody against the beta catalytic subunit of ATP synthase .
Although regulation of Id - 1 protein by several mitogenic factors is well - established , little is known about the role of FGF - 2 in the regulation of Id - 1 .
Promoter binding assay was performed by chromatin immunoprecipitation ( ChIP ) assay .
Pro / antioxidant status and AP - 1 transcription factor in murine skin following topical exposure to cumene hydroperoxide .
In multivariate analysis , PE was found to be a significant ( P = 0 . 03 ) predictor of overall survival ( OS ) with adjustment of the other baseline covariates , including patient age , history of antecedent hematologic disorders , and the use of protective environments .
John ' s wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) , has emerged as key player not only in the antidepressant activity of the plant but also as an inhibitor of bacteria lymphocyte and tumor cell proliferation , and matrix proteinases .
MDA - MB - 231 cells alone or breast cancer samples did not express RANKL mRNA .
METHODS : Using human colon adenocarcinoma tissues ( hereinafter referred to as colon cancer ) and their corresponding non - diseased colon from 114 patients ' biopsies , the expression of SPARC and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) were investigated by immunohistochemistry staining to assessment the relationship between SPARC and VEGF , as well as their prognostic significance in patients .
Common features of this ECM - assisted tissue remodelling include angiogenesis , recruitment of circulating progenitor cells and constructive remodelling of damaged tissue structures .
No harmful side effects were attributed to TEMF .
Ectopic expression of TLX in the U87MG glioma cell line and Ink4a / Arf - deficient mouse astrocytes ( Ink4a / Arf ( - / - ) astrocytes ) induced cell proliferation with a concomitant increase in cyclin D expression , and accelerated foci formation in soft agar and tumor formation in in vivo transplantation assays .
The formation of new blood vessels from pre - existing ones requires highly coordinated restructuring of endothelial cells ( EC ) and the surrounding extracellular matrix .
There is a crucial need to identify parameters that can predict a tendancy to metastatic spread to allow better prognostic evaluation and therapeutic approach .
When the metastatic lung carcinomas were subtyped , TTF - 1 staining was noted in 11 of 11 ( 100 % ) adenocarcinomas , in 6 of 7 ( 86 % ) small - cell carcinomas , in 15 of 19 ( 79 % ) large - cell carcinomas , and in none of 3 ( 0 % ) squamous cell carcinomas .
One mechanism by which alpha - MSH exerts its effects is modulation of AP - 1 and NF - kappa B .
Furthermore , these results demonstrate that different changes of proinflammatory cytokines , CRP and inhibiting factors are consistent with associated clinical benefit or with disease progression , respectively .
We verified this finding by Northern blot analysis .
We recently observed that FOXO3a gene inactivation occurs frequently in carcinogen - induced lung adenocarcinoma ( LAC ) .
Thus , these data demonstrate cooperative mechanisms for VPF / VEGF regulation of EC migration involving the alphavbeta3 integrin , the alphavbeta3 ligand OPN , and thrombin cleavage of OPN .
Angiogenic stimulation was macroscopically detectable , with engulfment of the samples , in 39 % and was evidenced by angiography in 59 % of the samples .
FVIIa - induced cell survival correlated with the activation of Akt and was inhibited markedly by the specific PI3 - kinase inhibitor , LY294002 .
In addition , the hypothesis predicts that early detection , which is designed to find more patients without involved lymph nodes , may not be a synergistic strategy with adjuvant chemotherapy , which works best with positive lymph node patients .
The mutant which retains only the central region of the v - fos protein ( Met111 - Ile206 ) have both activities , but the mutants which have deletions in this region , and one of the mutants that has a four amino acid insertion in it , lost both activities .
c - myc is a major target that transduces Myb ' s proliferative signal , as shown by the ability of a c - Myc - estrogen receptor fusion protein alone to also reverse growth arrest in this system .
Lesion composition also appears to influence visual outcome with verteporfin use .
MMP - 2 is involved in the early steps of angiogenesis leading to local dissolution of basement membrane collagen and migration of the activated endothelial cells .
A validated assay in human fat tissue is needed to study the role of angiogenesis in human obesity .
In contrast , none of the patients with JEB had elevated levels of bFGF .
Very recently , sunitinib has been shown to be an active agent for the treatment of malignant pheochromocytomas .
Chondrocyte - DegraPol constructs were cultured for 1 month with the medium before glycosaminoglycan assessment and histology .
The alternative splicing of Brn - 3a mRNA produces two molecular forms : a longer , Bcl - 2 transactivating form , and a shorter inactive form , lacking 84 AA in the aminoterminus .
In down modulated growing cells , PDBu caused almost complete inhibition of EGF binding , whereas in down modulated stationary cells , minimal inhibition of EGF binding by PDBu was observed .
Elevated vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) secretion by malignant cells enhanced recruitment of endothelial cells ( EC ) in heterotypic cocultures .
Thus , pVHL appears to participate in the elimination of misprocessed proteins , such as those arising in the cell due to the unavailability of glucose or to other stresses .
The relationship between P185neu - protein tyrosine kinase expression and specific PTPase expression may play a critical role in human breast tumorigenesis .
After cytocentrifugation the specimens were stained in accordance with the alkaline phosphatase anti - alkaline phosphatase ( APAAP ) method .
METHODS : We studied VEGF expression of 85 CML patients ( median age 50 years , range 16 - 75 years ) .
The role of the pro - inflammatory peptide , LL - 37 , and its pro - form , human cationic antimicrobial protein 18 ( hCAP - 18 ) , in cancer development and progression is poorly understood .
A p53 mutant , p53R172P , which is deficient for apoptosis but retains a partial cell cycle arrest function , delays tumor onset in mice .
Angiogenesis depends on growth factors and vascular cell adhesion events .
Similar to in vivo FdG - PET or primary breast cancers , rates of glycolysis were diverse , being higher in cells expressing both c - Myc and HIF - 1alpha and lower in cell lines low or negative in both transcription factors .
Our results strongly suggest that estradiol has a critical role in the regulation of IL - 8 in normal human breast tissue and human breast cancer .
We investigated the mechanism by which ephrin - B1 promotes membrane ruffling in human aortic endothelial cells , because membrane ruffling heralds cell body migration .
By contrast , ras - induced tumors were poorly differentiated fibrosarcomas .
As LVI is a strong predictive and prognostic marker , the monoclonal antibody D2 - 40 has the potential to play a significant role in pathological routine workup of breast tumors .
A tumor ' s ability to successfully metastasize may be dependent on mediators generated in the tumor - host interaction , and may not be just an independent characteristic of the tumor itself .
Group 1 animals had the left buccal pouches painted three times weekly with 7 , 12 - dimethylbenz ( a ) anthracene ( DMBA ) for 14 weeks .
Though less efficient in energy production , it ensures continuous supply of energy and phosphometabolites for biosynthesis enabling metastatic and less vascularized cancer cells to proliferate even under hypoxic conditions .
Use of uteroglobin for the engineering of polyvalent , polyspecific fusion proteins .
Both small RNAs contain a latency promoter binding factor consensus recognition sequence located toward their 5 ' ends as well as two potential ICP4 recognition consensus sequences , one in each orientation .
High density of somatostatin receptors in veins surrounding human cancer tissue : role in tumor - host interaction ?
The E7 oncoprotein of bovine papillomavirus type 1 ( BPV - 1 ) is required for the full transformation activity of the virus .
The last 7 years have seen over seven times as many publications indexed by Medline dealing with pomegranate and Punica granatum than in all the years preceding them .
The introduction of mutations into the T - antigen J domain resulted in mutation - specific and variable inhibition of apoptosis .
The expression of VEGFs did not correlate with either lymphatic density or neck metastasis .
The treatment possibilities for ischemia - related vascular disease are limited .
Most of the tumor - suppressive properties of Pten are dependent on its lipid phosphatase activity , which inhibits the phosphatidylinositol - 3 ' - kinase ( PI3K ) / Akt signaling pathway through dephosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol - ( 3 , 4 , 5 ) - triphosphate .
Our results suggest that the selective inhibition of NF - kappaB activation by NBD peptide may provide an effective approach for the treatment of highly metastatic OSCC .
Treatment with the combination of 1B3 and DC101 in BxPC - 3 xenograft - bearing mice resulted in tumor regression in 58 % of mice compared to that in 18 % of mice treated with DC101 alone .
Preventing VEGFR1 function using antibodies or by the removal of VEGFR1 ( + ) cells from the bone marrow of wild - type mice abrogates the formation of these pre - metastatic clusters and prevents tumour metastasis , whereas reconstitution with selected Id3 ( inhibitor of differentiation 3 ) - competent VEGFR1 + cells establishes cluster formation and tumour metastasis in Id3 knockout mice .
Inhibition of the UV - induced activation of Erbb2 also resulted in milder epidermal hyperplasia , S - phase accumulation , and decreased levels of the cell cycle regulator Cdc25a , suggesting altered cell cycle regulation on inhibition of Erbb2 .
Finally , inhibition of Id - 1 expression results in G ( 2 ) / M accumulation of FGF - 2 - treated cells and delayed cell death .
Vascular endothelial growth factor - B and vascular endothelial growth factor - C expression in renal cell carcinomas : regulation by the von Hippel - Lindau gene and hypoxia .
Fas - Fas ligand signaling pathway mediates an interleukin - 12 - induced rejection of a murine prostate tumor system .
In addition , AglRhz induced activation of caspase - 3 and poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase ( PARP ) , and DNA fragmentation in HT - 29 cells , leads to induction of apoptosis as well as suppression of tumorigenicity of HT - 29 cells .
However , additional transfection of TrkA into SY5Y - p75 cells resulted in a significantly reduced rate of apoptosis even in the absence of NGF .
We have previously shown that massive apoptosis occurs when wild - type p53 or E2F - 1 expression is induced in glioma .
Here we report that infusion of Ang II significantly increases circulating levels of sFlt - 1 in pregnant mice , thereby demonstrating that Ang II is a regulator of sFlt - 1 secretion in vivo .
Elevated levels of diacylglycerol and decreased phorbol ester sensitivity in ras - transformed fibroblasts .
In contrast , CH - 11 binds to Fas , but is unable to transmit the death signal beyond the plasma membrane suggesting a block at the DISC ( death inducing signaling complex ) .
Suppression of lung tumor growth and metastasis in mice by adeno - associated virus - mediated expression of vasostatin .
The region of the LTR identified here as being important in trans activation has recently been shown to be a critical determinant of the leukemogenicity and latency of Moloney murine leukemia virus .
We used neutralizing Abs to show that the IFN - inducible protein - 10 and monokine - induced by IFN - gamma chemokines are pivotal in inducing these effects .
Direct intramuscular or intraperitoneal injection of DAPT did not result in the same level of improvement , suggesting that appropriate presentation of DAPT ( gel delivery ) is important for its activity .
The [ 18F ] FDG uptake in muscle and the whole body glucose use during euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp were compared with those of weight - matched healthy subjects studied under similar circumstances .
Thrombin increases the mRNA and protein levels of alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) integrin and serves as a ligand to this receptor .
These accelerated relapses occur within 10 months of surgery for untreated patients .
In all cases , only inhibition of PKCalpha inhibited each of these functions when compared to the inhibition of PKCbeta .
CONCLUSION : These results demonstrated that cRGD - modified heparin derivative enhanced anti - angiotherapeutic effects against solid tumor , and therefore , it could be applied to treat various cancers and angiogenic diseases as a potent angiogenesis inhibitor .
While the understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of IBD has recently improved , the mechanisms that link these chronic inflammatory states to colorectal cancer development are in large part unknown .
The antiangiogenic properties of PDT have been adapted for treatment of subfoveal choroidal neovascular membranes due to disease states such as age - related macular degeneration ( AMD ) .
Bmi - 1 over - expression in neural stem / progenitor cells increases proliferation and neurogenesis in culture but has little effect on these functions in vivo .
Ultimately , the primary site was established on clinical and radiographic grounds in 71 cases ( 95 % ) .
Papilloma formation was observed in both the DMBA - TPA - and DMBA - Cum - OOH - exposed animals , whereas skin carcinomas were found only in the DMBA - Cum - OOH - treated mice .
TRAP - activated platelets stimulated a dose - dependent increase in SKOV3 cell invasion .
RESULTS : MMP - 9 was expressed in both cell lines but the intensity of the staining was different .
Survivin is a novel member of the inhibitor of apoptosis protein ( IAP ) family .
CONCLUSIONS / SIGNIFICANCE : GK rat islets have increased mRNA expression of markers of early islet endothelial cell activation , possibly triggered by several metabolic factors , and also some defense mechanisms .
Multiple studies are ongoing to determine the clinical benefits of aflibercept in cancer patients .
Effects of cyclooxygenase - 2 non - selective and selective inhibitors on proliferation inhibition and apoptosis induction of esophageal squamous carcinoma cells .
Inhibition of MEK also blocked growth factor induced migration but not adhesion of endothelial cells in vitro .
Interestingly , we find that the deletion of miR - BHRF1 - 2 reduced the expression level of miR - BHRF1 - 3 and possibly that of miR - BHRF1 - 1 , demonstrating that the expression of one miRNA can potentiate the expression of other miRNAs located in the same cluster .
The erbA / myb IRES virus exhibited a 5 - 10 - fold higher transformed colony forming efficiency than the erbA IRES virus in the blastoderm assay .
It is concluded that primary skin fibroblasts are able to survive for at least 8 weeks following intracerebral implantation and continue to synthesize collagen and fibronectin in vivo .
CONCLUSION : c - kit protein is an important diagnostic marker of gastrointestinal stromal tumor .
The results demonstrate the possibility to generate monospecific divalent and tetravalent antibodies , immunocytokines , and dual specificity tetravalent antibodies .
Bovine papillomavirus E7 transformation function correlates with cellular p600 protein binding .
VEGF might be an important angiogenic factor , and could promote tumor angiogenesis in LSCC .
RESULTS : Osteopontin small interference RNA ( siRNA ) inhibited osteopontin expression and cell invasion , promoted apoptosis in U251 cells .
PLGA - heparin microspheres released out bFGF in a more sustained manner with a smaller extent of initial burst than PLGA microspheres , indicating that surface immobilized heparin controlled the release rate of bFGF .
One theoretical possibility is that mast cells may prepare the matrix , perhaps by slow release of heparin , so that capillary sprouts can more easily move through it toward their angiogenic target .
The glucose turnover rate was significantly greater in TB compared with NTB animals , as was the rate of glucose recycling and the rate of gluconeogenesis ( alanine leads to glucose ) , both energy demanding processes .
Because the intravenously injected lipoplexes migrated within seconds to lungs , we checked whether the effects of immediate contact with serum correlate with lung lipofection efficiency of different DOTAP - based formulations .
The characteristics of HPCs in PET described herein for the first time offer additional diagnostic criteria and may help especially to differentiate these tumors from meningiomas .
RESULTS : We demonstrated that cisplatin provoked a time - and dose - dependent decrease of HUVEC migration ; this effect was clearly independent from its well known cytotoxic activity .
A feasibility study was carried out to develop the Ahn / Mustoe lapine wound model for systematic investigation of the effects of electrical stimulation on ischemic wound therapy .
The Met proto - oncogene mesenchymal to epithelial cell conversion .
Little difference was observed in their transforming efficiency ( 0 . 2 - 0 . 3 transformants / micrograms DNA ) between the combinations of oncogenes applied but a tendency was noted that cells transfected with ras or src in combination with myc developed the capacity to grow for a longer period and differentiated at a later stage than those transfected solely with ras or src .
Reduced expression of E - cadherin , an intercellular adhesion molecule of epithelial cells , has been reported to be associated with aggressive clinicopathological phenotypes in various cancers .
RUNX1 DNA - binding mutations and RUNX1 - PRDM16 cryptic fusions in BCR - ABL + leukemias are frequently associated with secondary trisomy 21 and may contribute to clonal evolution and imatinib resistance .
Saline , thrombin solution , PPP , and PRP were applied to the created defects before closure .
Viability , measured by the activity of mitochondrial dehydrogenases , was reduced significantly in the cells treated with Sim at 50 and 100 microM for 24 hours ( p < 0 . 005 ) .
During normal skin function , p53 in the keratinocyte is a transducer of the skin tanning signal and an essential component of what is effectively a keratinocyte - melanocyte signaling cycle that regulates skin pigmentation .
4 - Dodecylmorpholine N - oxide ( DMNO ) , one of the most active compounds , decreased the level of ATP immediately after addition to the suspension of Ehrlich cells in an ice bath .
In a first step , proteins were selected which showed a relationship to lymph node involvement .
In contrast , tunicamycin had little effect on the viability and MTT responses of the cells used .
The formation of new blood vessels through the process of angiogenesis is critical in vascular development and homeostasis .
The angiogenic response of fat tissue is not identical to placental tissue .
G45 antibody treatment induced SCC tumor apoptosis , decreased SCC tumor proliferation , and markedly impaired human SCC tumorigenesis in vivo without affecting normal tissue adhesion .
Leukocyte rolling , i . e . , the step preceding adhesion , was not influenced by the presence of a tumor in nude mice , but was down - regulated in immune - competent C57Bl / 6 mice .
HCMV immediate - early proteins were clearly shown to be responsible for elevating p53 levels in infected fibroblasts ; expression of HCMV immediate - early region 1 and 2 proteins resulted in elevation of p53 levels in transfected human fibroblasts .
Analysis of Runx2 - expressing lymphomas reveals a consistently low rate of apoptosis , in contrast to lymphomas of MYC mice which are often highly apoptotic .
Furthermore , we found that the potentiating effect of miR - BHRF1 - 2 on miR - BHRF1 - 3 synthesis can be reproduced with simple expression plasmids , provided that both miRNAs are processed from the same transcript .
RAF265 inhibited 2 - deoxy - 2 - [ ( 18 ) F ] fluoro - d - glucose ( FDG ) accumulation in cell culture at 28 hours in a dose - dependent manner .
The role of Hes genes in intestinal development , homeostasis and tumor formation .
BACKGROUND : Opticin is a recently discovered glycoprotein present predominantly in the vitreous humour .
The vertebrate vasculature develops in remarkably similar fashion in all vertebrates .
BAG - 1 regulates cellular growth , differentiation and survival through interactions with diverse proteins , including the vitamin D receptor ( VDR ) , a key regulator of keratinocyte growth and differentiation .
Blood vessels , capillaries , and endothelial pseudopods were found at greater than 100 microns from the capsule ( subcortex ) .
HSP27 expression was positive staining ( + ) in 20 ( 50 % ) , weak or negative staining ( - ) in 20 ( 50 % ) of total 40 cases .
A higher percentage of cells expressing topo I in primary colorectal cancer was significantly associated with advanced age ( P = . 040 ) .
Marrow cells survived and continued exogenous hemopoiesis for up to six months and were immunohistochemically reactive to basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) .
BACKGROUND : Bone morphogenetic proteins ( BMPs ) exert osteoinductive effects in prostate cancer ( PC ) via uncharacterized mechanisms .
AQP1 was expressed in cell membranes and its expression was higher in cancer than that in normal tissues .
It was the aim of this study to compare the value of measurement of glucose metabolism with that of measurement of 123I - IMT uptake for the non - invasive grading of brain tumours .
OBJECTIVE : To determine the impact of thalidomide and angiostatin on tumor growth , angiogenesis , and apoptosis in a xenograft model of cervical cancer .
Placed in the framework of other recently published work , the observations of Villani et al . both raise questions about the cell of origin for basal cell cancers and define additional putative therapeutic and preventive targets for this disease .
RESULTS : The control group showed the highest level of corneal clouding and neovascularization .
Interventional strategies showed that existing therapeutic modalities for asthma , such as inhaled corticosteroids , were sufficient to block the enhanced pulmonary recruitment of cancer cells from circulation .
Experimental drug therapy of peritumoral brain edema .
These data suggest that increases in endothelial cell migration and plasminogen activator after angiotensin system inhibition are at least partially pp60c - src mediated .
The rapid cleavage of Tie1 is followed by a transcriptional down - regulation in response to shear stress .
Grossly , these tumors were small and had few feeding vessels .
Expression of CD154 on renal cell carcinomas and effect on cell proliferation , motility and platelet - activating factor synthesis .
After tumor implantation the animals were examined weekly during several months for the appearance of metastases .
The number of retinal vascular findings was not significantly correlated with serous elevation of the retina .
In murine models , the latter produces a hyperproliferative response to G - CSF , confers resistance to apoptosis , and enhances cell survival .
Using GC cell lines we show that C / EBPbeta can regulate the expression of endogenous COX - 2 and transactivate the promoter of the COX - 2 gene , depending on its methylation status .
In the distraction group , a significant postoperative increase in MMP - 1 , bFGF , ALP , and BAP could be observed during the lengthening and the consolidation period when compared with the baseline levels .
14 diabetics with chronic nonhealing wounds which did not respond to treatment for at least 3 months were treated by HBO .
METHODS : Immunohistochemical staining with D2 - 40 and CD34 was performed on formalin - fixed , paraffin - embedded tissue sections of 254 invasive breast tumors of 247 patients with node negative and node positive early breast cancer .
After successive growth in vitro for longer than one month which was scarcely observed with the erythrophores , the vast majority of such transformants began to differentiate into erythrophores and ceased proliferation spontaneously .
The main purpose of the present investigation was to study the effect of a homologous series of 1 - alkylpyrrolidine N - oxides on ATP - producing processes in Ehrlich ascites and L1210 murine leukemia cells .
We have examined this hypothesis using a model that measures the neovascularization of an implanted foreign material .
We used a cellular model of tumor invasion to investigate the effect of activated platelets on the human ovarian cancer cell line , SKOV3 .
IL - 17 plays an important role in gut homeostasis .
Hence orally active blockers of TNF - alpha that are safe , efficacious and inexpensive are urgently needed .
Antiangiogenic properties have been recently reported in nicked beta2GPI as well as in intact beta2GPI at higher concentrations .
A synthetic tetracycline , doxycycline , inhibits migration of human MDA - MB - 435 breast adenocarcinoma cells through a reconstituted basement membrane ( Matrigel ) , an assay used as an in vitro surrogate for the in vivo process of tumor invasion through basement membranes .
Evaluations were graded on a zero to four scale .
This perspective places the report by Villani et al . that appears in this issue of the journal ( beginning on page 1222 ) in the context of recent work showing an intersection between two important developmental pathways implicated in oncogenesis : the hedgehog and insulin - like growth factor ( IGF ) pathways .
Various studies using the mouse , quail / chick , and frog have uncovered a number of signals that guide these complex processes but many gaps still exist in our understanding of the mechanisms by which the embryonic vasculature is built .
These studies also show their clinicalpathological features of the cancers with human Paraffin - embedded tumor tissue samples .
The Mr 64 , 000 enzyme could be extracted from viable cells ( presumably from the cell membrane ) by 2 % 1 - butanol .
We undertook this study to test the hypothesis that Fas - FasL - mediated apoptosis plays a role in IL - 12 - induced tumor regression .
In contrast , the response of cells to long - term treatment with PDBu was significantly different depending upon the initial growth state of the cells .
a pilot study .
Correlating the results of these two methods and clinicopathological factors , the c - kit expression and c - kit gene mutation rates were 95 . 0 % ( 19 / 20 ) and 0 in benign GIST , and were 98 . 4 % ( 61 / 62 ) , 54 . 8 % ( 34 / 62 ) in malignant GIST .
The marked induction of angiogenesis in glioblastomas suggests that it is a necessary part of malignant progression ; however , the precise molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of brain tumour growth and angiogenesis remain unresolved .
Proof of principle of the combined diagnosis / treatment system design for performing dye - enhanced photocoagulation ( DEP ) in the clinical setting and determination of the minimum DEP laser energy needed to close CNV FVs was made in 11 AMD patients requiring treatment of CNV , but for whom other treatment was not appropriate .
The present study provides direct evidence on the role of cell morphology in EC migration , and will help us to understand the mechanisms of EC migration during angiogenesis and wound healing .
The growth factor was found to reside in mast cell granules and was identified as heparin by sequential purification and enzymatic degradation .
Two approaches were used to measure protein kinase C : assay of intact cells for inhibition of epidermal growth factor ( EGF ) binding in response to phorbol dibutyrate ( PDBu ) ; and assay of detergent extracts for total calcium , phospholipid - dependent kinase activity .
Previous studies reported that the Tumor Susceptibility Gene 101 ( TSG101 ) is upregulated in selected human malignancies , and the expression of exogenous Tsg101 was suggested to transform immortalized fibroblasts in culture .
However , very little is known about the function of RASSF1C both in normal and transformed cells .
Rats that were irradiated twice ( single fractions at 0 and 24 hours after implantation ) did not show a significant decrease in the neovascularization of the irradiated implant compared with the contralateral control implant .
p21 delays tumor onset by preservation of chromosomal stability .
In contrast , at least some of these sites were not methylated in DNA from the B - cells expressing high levels of DR alpha mRNA .
Induction of the MKP - 1 protein in the MCF10A - Myc and MDA - MB - 231 breast epithelial cell lines was also seen .
Recent studies have demonstrated that tumor cells treated with antibodies specific for beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin ( beta ( 2 ) M ) or major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) class I molecules undergo apoptosis in vitro and in vivo ( mouse models ) .
There is comparatively less evidence to support the use of other treatment modalities for relief of symptoms in intermittent claudication , but there is considerable interest in therapeutic angiogenesis to promote new vessel formation and enhance collateralisation of the lower limb using recombinant growth factor proteins or gene transfer strategies .
TEL is biallelically disrupted in acute leukemia , and loss of heterozygosity at the TEL locus has been observed in various cancers .
Heparin - steroid conjugates : new angiogenesis inhibitors with antitumor activity in mice .
G ( i ) protein , phosphatidylinositol - 3 kinase ( PI3K ) , p38 mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) , cytosolic phospholipase A ( 2 ) and urokinase type plasminogen activator ( uPA ) are required for LPA - induced cells invasion .
Because poor skin wound healing associated with diabetes is thought to be partly a result from impaired angiogenesis , treatments that improve angiogenesis could have important clinical applications .
Similar results were obtained with cell lines derived from malignant fibrous histiocytomas , leiomyosarcomas , and liposarcomas .
We identified dynein light chain 1 ( DLC1 ) as a physiologic substrate of p21 - activated kinase 1 ( Pak1 ) .
In addition , TEL inhibited the invasiveness of Ras - transformed cells in vitro and in vivo .
Caspase - 3 is essential for procaspase - 9 processing and cisplatin - induced apoptosis of MCF - 7 breast cancer cells .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : We analyzed antigenicity , hydrophilicity , and charge distribution of the angioinhibitory epitope ( the 34 - mer ) and designed three peptides covering its COOH terminus , P14 , P18 , and P23 .
Mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) activities were investigated to explore the mechanism of this induction .
Topotecan - and gimatecan induced moderate up - regulation of TRAIL - R1 and - R2 which resulted in a different cell response to the combination in androgen - independent cells ( DU - 145 and PC - 3 ) .
Furthermore , we demonstrate that increased vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) - A secretion by tumor cells , as well as activation of VEGF receptor - 2 in bone marrow cells does not alter the mobilization and incorporation of marrow - derived endothelial progenitors into tumor vasculature .
The level of necrosis , as measured by propidium iodide internalization , increased significantly after 24 hours exposure to Sim at 50 microM ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
Inhibition of the endothelial cell autocrine angiotensin system , with either the angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor lisinopril or the angiotensin II receptor antagonist sar1 , ile8 - angiotensin II , leads to increased endothelial cell migration and urokinase - like plasminogen activator ( u - PA ) activity ( Bell , L . , and J . A . Madri . 1990 . Am . J . Pathol . 137 : 7 - 12 ) .
Glucose catabolism in cancer cells : identification and characterization of a marked activation response of the type II hexokinase gene to hypoxic conditions .
The stimulatory effect of mast cells on migration is specific for capillary endothelial cells .
The impact of elevated VEGF expression on the course of chronic myeloid leukaemia is unknown .
We did a blind prospective study in gastric cancer to assess the significance of isolated tumor cells ( ITC ) and to test the hypothesis that vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 1 ( VEGFR - 1 ) is expressed within the bone marrow at tumor - specific , premetastatic sites .
S - 100beta is also an independent prognostic marker .
Orthogonal polarization spectral imaging showed no difference in functional capillary density between the scaffolds cultured on chorioallantoic membranes .
Vascular proliferation and enhanced expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase in human peritoneum exposed to long - term peritoneal dialysis .
Inhibition of NO synthase by L - NAME might induce an anti - tumour effect by limiting nutrients and oxygen to reach tumour tissue or affecting vascular growth .
Endothelial cell migration was attenuated by treatment of cells with GM6001 , a non - specific inhibitor of MMPs , or by a selective anti - MMP2 antibody .
The elimination half - life when administered i . m . was found to be 3 . 0 h in the serum and 4 . 3 h in the cellular fraction of the blood .
This study investigates the systemic biochemical regulation of fracture healing in distraction osteogenesis compared with rigid osteotomy in a prospective in vivo study in humans .
Experimental Design : Human umbilical vein and dermal microvascular endothelial cells were infected with replication - deficient adenoviruses encoding survivin ( pAd - Survivin ) , green fluorescent protein ( pAd - GFP ) , or a phosphorylation - defective survivin Thr ( 34 ) - - > Ala ( pAd - T34A ) dominant negative mutant .
This effect was observed whether the cells had been treated with all - trans - RA in serum - free medium or in medium supplemented with heat - inactivated or acid - treated fetal bovine serum .
Patients with tumors demonstrating concurrent methylation of more than half of their genes demonstrated significantly poorer survival and earlier recurrence .
Solid tumors must establish a blood supply in order to proliferate and grow .
RESULTS : PCR and chimeric BMP - 2 and BMP - 4 luciferase assays demonstrate that NF - kappaB confers robust and selective activation of BMP - 2 in p65 overexpressing or rhTNF - alpha - stimulated PC cells .
Traditional coronary revascularization therapies such as coronary angioplasty or bypass graft surgery , act by restoring blood flow through the preexisting coronary vessels .
In addition , our in vivo studies indicated that the lenti - BI - 1 - infected cells formed obvious tumours , while no tumours were formed by the control cells after subcutaneously injected into nude mice .
PURPOSE : The poor prognosis associated with lung cancer is related to the high incidence of regional and distant metastasis .
CONCLUSION : In early - stage breast cancer patients , overexpression of c - erbB2 is a marker of lack of efficacy of adjuvant tamoxifen .
CONCLUSIONS : Young donor - derived MSCs can improve heart function significantly through angiogenesis and decreasing cardiomyocyte apoptosis when transplanted to the infarcted area .
Non - specific PKC inhibitors staurosporine and bisindolylmaleimide II as well as inhibitors specific to conventional PKCs ( Go6976 ) and PKC - delta ( rottlerin ) attenuated NF - kappaB activation in BPDE treated cells to a varying degree indicating a possible link between PKC down - regulation and the attenuation of NF - kappaB activity by TSC phenolic fraction .
Median overall and progression - free survivals are 14 . 4 and 4 . 7 months , respectively .
Four human cervical cancer cell lines were treated for 24 h with various concentration of paclitaxel , and the sensitivity was analysed by an MTT assay .
Cytochrome - c staining was diffused in the cytoplasm of the apoptotic cells , but restricted to the mitochondria in control cells .
From 35 to 100 % of the whole amount of ATP resynthesized via glycolysis is utilized for transport purposes .
The role of platelet - derived endothelial cell growth factor / thymidine phosphorylase in tumor behavior .
In the control group ( group 1 ) no further management was undertaken .
These results strongly suggested that the BI - 1 gene might play a crucial role in neoplastic genesis and development .
Overexpression of CYR61 , CTGF , WISP - 1 , and NOV occurred in 48 % ( 32 of 66 ) , 58 % ( 38 of 66 ) , 36 % ( 24 of 66 ) , and 15 % ( 10 of 66 ) of primary gliomas , respectively .
Although several hypotheses for human carcinogenesis have been proposed , the specific genetic changes that cause normal cells to become cancer cells have not been identified .
Ets - 1 , a transcription factor , is induced in endothelial cells ( ECs ) during angiogenesis .
METHODS : Forty - one patients ( 41 eyes ) with a clinical diagnosis of exudative ARMD with PED underwent simultaneous fluorescein and indocyanine green angiography , also under high ( 10 degrees ) magnification .
Identification of latency - associated transcripts that map antisense to the ICP4 homolog gene of Marek ' s disease virus .
RESULTS : EPOX induced endothelial cell apoptosis in association with proteasome - dependent Mcl - 1 degradation .
In addition suppression of WT1 expression by WT1 anti - sense oligonucleotide inhibits proliferation of leukemia cells , suggesting that WT1 is important for their proliferation .
Importantly , Bax and Bak were rapidly translocated to the mitochondria 30 min after betulin treatment .
Endothelial cell staining was heterogeneous and varied in different regions .
Sunitinib induces apoptosis in pheochromocytoma tumor cells by inhibiting VEGFR2 / Akt / mTOR / S6K1 pathways through modulation of Bcl - 2 and BAD .
One such factor , vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , is considered to exert a potent angiogenic activity , as indicated by immunohistochemical and molecular evidence .
The role of organ vascularization and lipoplex - serum initial contact in intravenous murine lipofection .
Thus , we identified for the first time that honokiol provided therapeutic benefit not only by direct effects on tumor cells and antiangiogenesis but also by inhibiting lymphangiogenesis and metastasis via the VEGFR - 3 pathway .
Ectopic PTTG overexpression in a representative ESCC cell line , EC9706 , increased in vitro cell migration and invasion and promoted in vivo lymph node metastasis .
UV radiation has been shown to play a role in the initiation of human cutaneous melanoma , but its role in the development of malignant melanoma to the metastatic state is not very well defined .
The region contains a number of small open reading frames on each side and within the MSRs .
c - Ski overexpression promotes tumor growth and angiogenesis through inhibition of transforming growth factor - beta signaling in diffuse - type gastric carcinoma .
Vimentin is preferentially expressed in human breast carcinomas with low estrogen receptor and high Ki - 67 growth fraction .
This sensitization did not occur when T251 - 708 was targeted to the nucleus by inclusion of the SV40 nuclear localization signal .
Treatment of mice bearing a small ear tumor with a humanized antivascular endothelial growth factor antibody prevented the down - regulation of leukocyte - vessel wall interactions inside the tumor vessels compared with the nontreated group .
Sunitinib markedly induced apoptosis of PC12 cells in a dose - dependent and time - dependent manner .
On the contrary , there was intense staining for HER2 on the basolateral membrane of epithelial cells of intestinal metaplasia ( 22 / 24 ; 91 . 7 % ) and carcinoma in situ ( 9 / 10 ; 90 % ) , the lesions that displayed a significantly high proliferation index .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is one of the most critical factors that induce angiogenesis and has thus become an attractive target for antiangiogenesis treatment .
The increased migration ability and the invasive ability into tumor cluster of TGF - beta - treated NIH3T3 cells were dose dependently inhibited by TSP - 1 .
In experimental breast cancer , estradiol increased IL - 8 whereas the anti - estrogen tamoxifen inhibited the secretion of IL - 8 both in vitro and extracellularly in vivo in tumors of nude mice .
IL - 8 may present a novel therapeutic target for estrogen driven breast carcinogenesis and tumor progression .
Nineteen ( 79 % ) putative NK - cell lymphomas expressed perforin , and all 24 cases expressed granzyme B9 and TIA1 .
MDM2 overexpression was manually classified as > 5 % nuclear staining .
It is involved in a wide range of developmental and physiological processes , including serum calcium regulation .
The dominant view is that neutrophils display exclusively antitumor properties .
This has led to the therapeutic concept of prophylactic thyroidectomy in affected family members with the goal of removing the thyroid before the manifestation of carcinoma .
Fibroblasts of the host animal may thus have an important role in generating enhanced metastatic activity of H - 3 cells .
Interference with the function of transcription factor AP - 2 might provide a potential strategy for modulation of the malignant phenotype .
BACKGROUND : Diabetic patients have been reported to have impaired coronary collateral vessel growth , although they have excessive neovascularization in the retina .
The data show that different protein expression patterns exist between primary squamous cell lung carcinomas with and without lymph node involvement and within carcinomas with lymph node involvement .
Careful selection of patients may be necessary before designing therapeutic strategies using either p53 or E2F - 1 as a therapeutic tools for glioma patients .
Dietary CLA decreased serum levels of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and whole mammary gland levels of VEGF and its receptor Flk - 1 .
Attenuation of the proangiogenic effects by neutralizing VEGF antibodies suggests VEGF play a key role in the acquisition of the angiogenic phenotype in oral cancer cells .
A chemokine receptor , CXCR4 , and its endogenous ligand , stromal cell - derived factor - 1 ( SDF - 1 ) , have been recognized to be involved in the metastasis of several types of cancers .
This finding may help to elucidate the relationship of WT1 and N - myc in tumorigenesis and renal development .
The apoptosis induced by Sim is probably initiated by the mitochondrial caspase 9 , which indirectly leads to activation of caspase 3 and 8 .
Histologic parameters ( primary and secondary bone trabecula , neovascularization , and bone marrow and connective tissue formation ) were compared between 4 - and 16 - week groups . More rapid decrease in defect size was observed in groups 3 and 4 than in groups 1 and 2 , both in the 4th and 16th weeks .
Furthermore , LDH5 correlates positively with the prognostic marker TKTL1 .
Treatment with suberoylanilide hydroxamide ( SAHA ) , a histone deacetylase ( HDAC ) inhibitor , causes dose - dependent hTERT reporter activation , mimicking HMGA2 overexpression .
From a functional perspective , we observe that caffeine also significantly inhibits the A3 receptor - stimulated cell migration of colon cancer cells .
Other enzymes , in anaerobic and aerobic glycolysis , which were blocked include hexokinase , phosphofructokinase , succinic and alpha - ketoglutarate dehydrogenases , as well as States 3 and 4 of oxidative phosphorylation .
Angiogenesis is a fundamental process to normal and abnormal tissue growth and repair , which consists of recruiting endothelial cells toward an angiogenic stimulus .
METHODOLOGY / PRINCIPAL FINDINGS : Examination of FOXO3a and phosphorylated - Akt ( P - Akt ) expression in breast cancer tissue microarrays showed nuclear FOXO3a was associated with lymph node positivity ( p = 0 . 052 ) , poor prognosis ( p = 0 . 014 ) , and P - Akt expression in invasive ductal carcinoma .
In addition , most of these agents require instrumentation of the urinary tract and are delivered at a significant cost and potential morbidity to the patient .
Angiopoietin - 1 prevents VEGF - induced endothelial permeability by sequestering Src through mDia .
SUMMARY : Staging of colorectal cancer occurs after surgery and is based on the extent of disease invasiveness and dissemination .
The increased expressions of these proteins in Galpha ( 12 ) QL cells were validated by immunoblot analysis .
However , we demonstrate a novel and more complex role for PSMA in angiogenesis , where it is a principal component of a regulatory loop that is tightly modulating laminin - specific integrin signaling and GTPase - dependent , p21 - activated kinase 1 ( PAK - 1 ) activity .
These properties allow the angiogenic switch to be evaluated in an in vitro setting .
PROCEDURE : To investigate the effect of p75 expression in NB , we transfected the p75 cDNA into SH - SY5Y cells , an NB cell line lacking expression of both p75 and TrkA .
VEGF - targeted therapy : therapeutic potential and recent advances .
RESULTS : The overall incidence of BRAF mutation ( 89 / 183 , 49 % ) was very similar to other large studies of Caucasian populations .
Strikingly , 5 of 6 familial CCMs showed PTEN promoter methylation ( 83 . 3 % ) , which was significantly higher than in sporadic cases ( 9 . 4 % ; P < 0 . 001 ) .
In a variety of cell types , the glycolipid - anchored urokinase receptor ( uPAR ) is colocalized pericellularly with components of the plasminogen activation system and endocytosis receptors .
To investigate how CSC contribute to tumor vascular development , we used an approach comparing tumor xenografts of the C6 glioma cell line containing either a low or a high fraction of CSC .
p63 , a p53 homologue , is a myoepithelial cell marker in the normal mammary gland but p63 - positive neoplastic cells may be found in up to 11 % of invasive breast carcinomas .
We attempted to correlate the expression of human leukocyte antigen DR ( HLA - DR ) and tumor infiltration by S - 100 - protein - positive dendritic cells with clinicopathologic features in 165 patients with gastric cancer .
Administration of thalidomide at the concentration of 0 . 01 microM increased cell migration , while at 10 microM , it decreased cell migration .
Here , we examined the function of c - Ski in human diffuse - type gastric carcinoma OCUM - 2MLN cells .
The ability of LRP - 1 to regulate expression of the factors identified here suggests a role for LRP - 1 in determining blood vessel structure and in angiogenesis .
Although short treatments with LeTx only modestly affected cell proliferation , sustained treatment markedly reduced cell numbers .
Furthermore , compared with similar fusion proteins in which uteroglobin was not used , the use of uteroglobin improved properties of solubility and stability .
Under this condition , the secondary functions of effected cells are likely to be impaired , and a new metabolic equilibrium is established , determined by the level of cross - diffusion and degree of hypoxia .
By interacting with Sp1 , HMGA2 interferes with the recruitment of HDAC2 to the hTERT proximal promoter , enhancing localized histone H3 - K9 acetylation and thereby stimulating hTERT expression and telomerase activity .
The metabolic functions of p53 resist the shift to glycolysis that is characteristically seen in cancers , and also help cells adapt to and survive limited periods of metabolic stress .
In groups 1 & 2 , hindlimb ischemia was induced by ligation of femoral artery and they received L - NIL and saline respectively .
Ba / F3 cells transformed to growth factor independence by various oncogenic PTKs ( TEL / JAK2 , TEL / TRKC , TEL / ABL , BCR / ABL , FLT3 - ITD , and H4 / PDGFbetaR ) show abundant expression of PIM - 1 and PIM - 2 .
The proportion of SMCs surviving in the implanted region was greater ( P less than 0 . 05 ) in the IGF - 1 - transfected group than in the vector or cell controls .
Changes in plasminogen activator inhibitor - 1 levels in non - small cell lung cancer .
These are exciting new functions of vitamins that nobody could have predicted only a few years ago .
CONCLUSIONS : The results suggest that annexin II and beta ( 2 ) - tubulin down - regulation is important in NPC formation and may represent potential targets for further investigations .
Metastatic spread of malignant tumor appears to correlate with activation of the fibrolytic system .
Downstream targets of Plexin C1 signaling in human melanocytes include cofilin and LIM kinase II , both of which are critical mediators of cell adhesion and migration .
Randomised placebo controlled trials have shown that the phosphodiesterase III inhibitor cilostazol 100mg bid improves pain - free and maximum walking distance , as well as quality of life , in a range of patients with intermittent claudication in whom there is no evidence of tissue necrosis or rest pain .
Dogs with lymphoma had similar glucose tolerance curves when compared with controls .
This encourages the performance of further studies to analyse the potential impact of 123I - IMT SPET on the therapeutic management of patients with brain tumours .
We have found that sanguinarine alters the morphology and reduces the viability of MG - 63 and SaOS - 2 human osteosarcoma cell lines in concentration - and time - dependent manner .
CONCLUSIONS : The results have shown that bisphosphonates as adjuvant treatment might be useful for the prevention of bone metastases ; however , there is need for blinded randomized data before such an approach would be confirmed .
The results showed that betulin significantly inhibited cell viability in cervix carcinoma HeLa cells , hepatoma HepG2 cells , lung adenocarcinoma A549 cells , and breast cancer MCF - 7 cells with IC ( 50 ) values ranging from 10 to 15 microg / mL .
Similarly to other members of this family , Id - 1 is involved in the repression of cell differentiation and activation of cell growth .
Role of thrombogenic factors in the development of atherosclerosis .
Their resistance to the anti - invasive action of TGFbeta was explained by the failure of TGFbeta to upregulate TIMPs and PAI - I , in contrast to the TGFbeta - induced upregulation noted in parental HTR8 cells .
Tissue blocks were obtained and immunoperoxidase staining was performed using the TTF - 1 antibody .
Transformants induced by 5 - azacytidine lost c - myc - induced apoptotic cell death , whereas MnSO4 - induced transformants showed a higher degree of apoptosis than the parental Rat 6 / c - myc cells .
All - trans retinoic acid ( ATRA ) could potently inhibit the growth of prostate cancer cells in vitro and its combination with various anticancer agents results in increased cytotoxicity .
UFT and its metabolites inhibit the angiogenesis induced by murine renal cell carcinoma , as determined by a dorsal air sac assay in mice .
Systematic proteomic studying of the mechanism of hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) metastasis remains challenging .
In addition , VEGF might be associated with the etiology of periodontitis in its early stages according to neovascularization stimulated by periodontal pathogens causing swelling and edema .
Few studies have investigated the association between p53 and VEGF expressions and prognosis in esophageal carcinoma .
RESULTS : The percentage of patients being bone metastases free at 12 mo was 60 % in the zoledronic acid and 10 % in the control group ( p less than 0 . 0005 ) , while the percentages at 18 mo were 20 % and 5 % respectively ( p = 0 . 0002 ) .
It is proposed that these proteins be called , respectively , p40xI and p37xII .
The UFO locus is evolutionarily conserved between vertebrate species .
In cervical cancer cells , paclitaxel induced apoptosis through an intrinsic pathway with prior G2 / M arrest .
Thus , Fas could be involved in bovine lactoferrin - mediated inhibition of tumor development .
However , the role of the TSH - R - related cAMP pathway alterations in thyroid transformation remains to be elucidated .
The proinflammatory activities link TNF - alpha with a wide variety of autoimmune diseases , including psoriasis , inflammatory bowel disease , rheumatoid arthritis , systemic sclerosis , systemic lupus erythematosus , multiple sclerosis , diabetes and ankylosing spondylitis .
Notch signaling regulates intestinal development , homeostasis and tumorigenesis , but its precise downstream mechanism remains largely unknown .
The pomegranate tree , Punica granatum , especially its fruit , possesses a vast ethnomedical history and represents a phytochemical reservoir of heuristic medicinal value .
Moreover , we suppose that knowledge about heterogeneity between primary and metastatic tumor might help to understand mechanisms of oral cancer progression .
Based on its role in malignant transformation , apoptosis , and cell proliferation , the transcription factor NF - kappaB / Rel has gained the attention of many laboratories .
Treatment of REF or REF expressing full - length T antigen , an N - terminal segment , or T251 - 708 resulted in increased expression of the p53 - responsive MDM2 gene ; apoptosis occurred through a p53 - dependent pathway , as p53 - null cells expressing these T antigens were resistant to 5 - FU - induced apoptosis .
For this reason , formalin - fixed , paraffin - embedded specimens from 130 patients with squamous cell lung carcinomas were analyzed by immunohistochemistry .
Induction of TSP - 1 mRNA by TGF - beta was attenuated by c - Ski in vitro , and expression of TSP - 1 mRNA was decreased in tumors expressing c - Ski in vivo .
In the developing retinal vasculature , numerous , long filamentous filopodia , emanating from endothelial cells at the tips of angiogenic sprouts , were observed in wild - type animals , but to a lesser extent in the PECAM - 1 - null mice .
These aspects of OPN biology are important in tumorigenesis .
The p16 / Rb / E2F pathway is the most frequent target of genetic alterations in gliomas , and therefore constitutes a suitable target for gene therapy strategies .
In contrast , the conditioned media induce elevated levels of proapoptotic mediators in the Chang hepatocytes .
However , high expression of WT1 correlates with poor prognosis in acute leukemia .
In conclusion , our study revealed that the overexpression of EphA2 protein in colorectal carcinoma tissue correlates closely with cancer progression and hematogenous and lymphogenous metastasis , suggesting that both EphA2 and E - cadherin may play an important role in tumor metastasis in colorectal cancer .
Thus , such a resonating cross - talk can amplify Hedgehog signaling , resulting in molecular chatter that overall promotes tumor progression .
AngiomiRs - - key regulators of angiogenesis .
Treatment of NIH 3T3 cells with the PKC inhibitor staurosporine , the tyrosine kinase inhibitor herbimycin A , and the AA metabolism inhibitor quinacrine induces apoptotic cell death .
Antibodies against beta ( 2 ) M or MHC class I induce tumor cell apoptosis by 1 ) recruiting MHC class I molecules to lipid rafts and activating LYN kinase and the signal - transducing enzyme phospholipase C - gamma2 - dependent c - Jun N - terminal kinase signaling pathway and 2 ) expelling interleukin 6 and insulin - like growth factor 1 receptors out of lipid rafts and inhibiting the growth and survival factor - induced activation of the phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase / Akt and extracellular signal - related kinase pathways .
The induction of elevated p53 levels commenced at immediate - early times of the HCMV multiplication cycle ( 6 h postinfection ) and reached maximal levels by 24 h postinfection , before most of the HCMV DNA synthesis was initiated .
For electron microscopic examination the cell suspensions were then incubated with gold - labeled antirabbit antibody .
Thus , a distinct WNT / TCF signaling program through LEF1 and HOXB9 enhances the competence of lung adenocarcinoma cells to colonize the bones and the brain .
Airway angiogenesis and microvascular remodeling are known features of bronchial asthma , but the mechanisms of these structural alterations are just beginning to be elucidated .
Furthermore , Ang II stimulated sFlt - 1 production in a dose - and time - dependent manner from human villous explants and cultured trophoblasts but not from endothelial cells , suggesting that trophoblasts are the primary source of sFlt - 1 during pregnancy .
Here we produced a neutralizing antibody , 1B3 , directed against mouse PDGFRbeta .
Mice with tumor xenograft and experimental metastasis model were used to evaluate effects on tumor growth and metastasis .
Defective expression of HRK is associated with promoter methylation in primary central nervous system lymphomas .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is a major regulator of angiogenesis that binds to tyrosine kinase receptors Flt - 1 and KDR .
The indication for surgery was established on the basis of pathologic calcitonin levels in the first seven patients and on the basis of detected RET proto - oncogene mutation in the other eight patients .
Here we show that transcription of the p53 gene is induced by IFN - alpha / beta , accompanied by an increase in p53 protein level .
The reduction in collagenolytic activity was observed in viable cells as well as in conditioned medium .
Honokiol has been reported to possess potent antiangiogenesis and antitumor properties in several cell lines and xenograft tumor models .
These results indicated that Crk plays a critical role in Rac1 - induced membrane ruffling and Rap1 - mediated nascent focal complex stabilization contributing to ephrin - B1 - induced human aortic endothelial cells migration .
The alpha2beta1 integrin receptor plays a key role in angiogenesis .
Clinical results induced by autologous bone marrow stem cells or angiogenic growth / differentiation factors in end - stage patients with PAD are summarized .
The induction of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and interleukin - 8 ( IL - 8 ) is an essential feature of tumor angiogenesis , and the hypoxia - inducible factor - 1 ( HIF - 1 ) transcription factor is known to be a key regulator of this process .
METHODS : The expression of five facilitative glucose transporters , Glut - 1 ( erythrocyte type ) , Glut - 2 ( liver type ) , Glut - 3 ( brain type ) , Glut - 4 ( muscle / fat type ) , and Glut - 5 ( small intestine type ) , was studied by immunohistochemistry of paraffin sections from 12 primary human breast cancers and 8 lymph node metastases from 2 patients .
The in vivo role of 9E3 / CEF4 may be involved with chemotaxis and metastasis , rather than with direct stimulation of mitogenicity .
The threshold level of adenomatous polyposis coli protein for mouse intestinal tumorigenesis .
Unexpectedly , cells expressing both Ras and TEL grew as aggregates .
RESULTS : Methylation - specific polymerase chain reaction revealed PTEN promoter methylation in 15 . 9 % CCMs .
It activated multicaspases , and increased the activities of caspase - 8 and caspase - 9 in both MG - 63 and SaOS - 2 cells .
As expected , Ang II - induced sFlt - 1 secretion resulted in the inhibition of endothelial cell migration and in vitro tube formation .
When plated in 2 % serum on dishes precoated with reconstituted basement membrane ( Matrigel ) , HUVECs infected with AdCMV . VEGF165 ( 20 pfu per cell ) differentiated into capillary - like structures .
METHODS : This review discusses our current understanding of the mechanisms of TGF - beta signaling , focusing on the roles of TGF - beta in regulation of vascular wall cells and on the regulation of TGF - beta superfamily signals by inhibitory Smads .
We show that both substitution of glucose for pyruvate and treatment with 2 - deoxyglucose enhanced apoptosis induced by tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) - alpha , CD95 agonistic antibody , and TNF - related apoptosis - inducing ligand ( TRAIL ) .
Hepatomas exhibiting this phenotype are dependent on the high expression of type II hexokinase , which supplies such tumors with abundant amounts of glucose 6 - phosphate , a significant carbon and energy source especially under hypoxic conditions .
In spleen , tyrosinase , TRP - 1 and SV40 Tag were expressed and tyrosinase was enzymatically active .
Treatment with 25 mg / kg cyclopamine significantly attenuated BrdU incorporation in tumor cells threefold ( P less than 0 . 001 ) , in tumor related endothelial cells threefold ( P = 0 . 004 ) , and delayed tumor growth by 4 days .
Treatment of NIH3T3 / KDR cells with TKI - 31 blocked VEGF - induced phosphorylation of KDR in a dose - dependent manner .
To examine whether IFI16 induction might be extended to other proinflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) - alpha , we used the strategy of the RNA interference to knock down IFI16 expression , and analyze the capability of TNF - alpha to stimulate intercellular adhesion molecule - 1 ( ICAM - 1 or CD54 ) expression in the absence of functional IFI16 .
No difference in relapse - free ( p = 0 . 26 ) or overall ( p = 0 . 63 ) survival was observed in patients stratified by angiogenin expression .
Effect of antitumor agents on cytotoxicity induction by sodium fluoride .
These results suggest that C / EBPbeta may be a marker of neoplastic transformation and also play an active role in gastric tumourigenesis by regulating COX - 2 expression .
This probably results in the slower rate of osteogenesis seen at the 1 mm / day distraction rate compared with the 0 . 5 mm / day distraction rate .
METHODS : Four hundred eighty - four consecutive eyes of 446 patients treated with PDT from January 1 , 2001 , to June 30 , 2002 , were identified from billing records .
Thyrotropin receptor : a role for thyroid tumourigenesis ?
Cancer cells secrete soluble factors which can induce proliferation and migration of capillary endothelial cells .
Patients with high PLD ( > 8 . 0 ) showed higher rates of neck metastases than low PLD ( < = 8 . 0 ) ( 74 . 0 % vs 46 . 8 % , p = . 03 ) .
Western blotting analysis showed that liposomal honokiol - inhibited Akt and MAPK phosphorylation in 2 endothelial cells , and downregulated expressions of VEGFR - 2 of human vascular endothelial cells and VEGFR - 3 of lymphatic endothelial cells .
One of these mutants ( CU2 ) increases the rate of glucose transport only slightly and does not render the infected cells fully anchorage independent or tumorigenic ( although other transformation parameters are fully induced ) .
We hypothesized that Erbb2 activation contributes to UV - induced skin tumorigenesis by suppressing cell cycle arrest .
The transcription factor NF - kappaB and associated regulatory factors ( including IkappaB kinase subunits and the IkappaB family member Bcl - 3 ) are strongly implicated in a variety of hematologic and solid tumor malignancies .
A remarkable delay of tumor growth and prolonged life span were also observed .
The main objective of the study was to determine the mean visual acuity change .
Since Akt phosphorylates Chk1 - Ser ( 280 ) , the effect of Erbb2 on phosphatidyl inositol - 3 - kinase ( PI3K ) / Akt signaling during UV - induced cell cycle arrest was determined .
Moreover , in vitro experiments demonstrated a direct effect of ethanol on the response to hypoxia in endothelial cells , as ethanol diminished nuclear hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha protein levels .
When genetic ablation of 1 or 2 alleles of fur and overexpression of the PLAG1 transgene were simultaneously achieved , a significant delay in tumorigenesis was observed .
OSCC sublines were established from a GFP - expressing parental cell line , GSAS , and designated GSAS / N3 and N5 according to the in vivo passage number after cervical lymph node metastasis by a serial orthotopic transplantation model .
TSP - 2 deficiency dramatically enhanced susceptibility to skin carcinogenesis and resulted in accelerated and increased tumor formation .
[ Inhibitory effect of adenovirus - mediated endostatin gene transfer on transplanted lung carcinoma in mice ]
The latent membrane protein LMP1 of Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) is often present in EBV - associated malignancies including nasopharyngeal carcinoma and Hodgkin ' s lymphoma .
Homeostasis of the extracellular matrix is a delicate balance between degradation and remodeling , the balance being maintained by the interaction of activated matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) and specific tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases ( TIMPs ) .
Therefore , we next examined the effect of DMI on Ca3 / 7 cells , resistant to growth inhibition by the synthetic glucocorticoid fluocinolone acetonide ( FA ) .
Applying cell immunohistochemistry and RT - PCR , we further validated two interesting and different proteins , annexin1 and S100A4 .
RESULTS : In comparison with controls , intratumoral injection of Ad - mEndostatin significantly inhibited the tumor growth and metastasis , and prolonged the survival rate of mice ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
In contrast , osteoprotegerin ( OPG ) inhibits osteoclast development .
DESIGN : Differentially expressed proteins discovered between the two cell lines were identified by mass spectrometry .
Groups 3 and 4 were vitamin E and untreated controls .
RESULTS : PLGA microspheres with an open - porous structure were formed .
Pathological analysis indicated that generated tumors corresponded to well - differentiated fibrosarcomas with distinct and intersecting bundles and spindle cells .
In this report , we demonstrate that murine bone marrow contains endothelial progenitors , which arise from a cell with self - renewing capacity , and can integrate into tumor microvasculature , albeit at a very low frequency .
In the meantime , it could also greatly reduce the G1 and S , with obviously dose - response relationship .
For efficacy studies , nude mice bearing orthotopically implanted tumors derived from breast cancer cell line MDA - MB - 435 were treated with galectin - 3C or a vehicle control i . m . twice daily for 90 days .
In the colon carcinoma experiment , mean permeability and perfusion decreased by 51 % ( from 5 . 2 + / - 1 . 1 to 2 . 5 + / - 0 . 8 ml / 100 ml ) and 59 % ( from 0 . 00165 + / - 5 . 1 to 0 . 0067 + / - 4 . 8 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) of tissue ) , respectively , in all animals after antiangiogenic drug administration .
BALB - / MK - 2 mouse epidermal keratinocytes required epidermal growth factor for proliferation and terminally differentiated in response to high Ca2 + concentration .
Opinions on 3 areas were sought : pulp therapy for cariously involved primary teeth ; indirect pulp treatment ( IPT ) for cariously involved immature permanent teeth ; and innovative treatment options including pulpal revascularization and regeneration .
The present study was therefore designed to evaluate the expression of thrombospondin 1 and 2 ( TSP - 1 , TSP - 2 ) , TSP receptors CD36 and CD47 , and matrix - metalloproteases 2 and 9 ( MMP - , MMP - 9 ) in a rat prostate cancer model .
Whether more differentiated cells may also be transformed by particular oncogenes is actively debated ; it is presently unclear whether stem cells or differentiated mammary cells are more susceptible to transformation by individual oncogenes .
Postoperative progression of pulmonary metastasis in osteosarcoma .
Although this pathway is activated by autocrine signaling by Hedgehog ligands , it can also initiate paracrine signaling with cells in the microenvironment .
However , agents such as verteporfin , a second - generation benzoporphyrin derivative , appear to be free from the extensive phototoxicity that limited the success of previous agents .
These data indicate that artemisinin may be useful for the prevention of lymph node metastasis by downregulating VEGF - C and reducing tumor lymphangiogenesis .
In the present study it was found that incubation of HepG2 cells with a low concentration of 3 - BrPA for a short period ( 150 microM for 30 min ) significantly affected both glycolysis and mitochondrial respiratory functions .
Surprisingly , the level of leukocyte adhesion in ear venules of mice with a large flank tumor was also reduced significantly .
The studies reported here were designed to help elucidate PAI - 1 ' s contribution to the invasive and migratory phenotype .
TES2 mediates the interaction with tumor necrosis factor receptor - associated death domain protein ( TRADD ) and plays a key role in transactivating NF - kappa B and AP - 1 .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : c - erbB2 , evaluated by immunohistochemistry in 145 of 173 patients randomly assigned to 2 - year adjuvant tamoxifen or no further therapy , was considered overexpressed if greater than 10 % of the cells showed specific membrane staining .
Lysophosphatidic acid ( LPA ) levels are elevated in ascites from ovarian cancer patients , but its potential role in ovarian cancer metastasis has just begun to be revealed .
We further show that down - regulation of caspase 3 via overexpression of RASSF1C reduces breast cancer cells ' sensitivity to the apoptosis inducing agent , etoposide .
The data support the hypothesis that increased epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) and transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - alpha expression is associated with early events in malignant transformation of pleomorphic adenoma ( PA ) .
These findings suggest that nm23 - H1 encodes for suppression of colon carcinoma metastasis .
These results suggest that SWAP - 70 may be required for oncogenic transformation and contributes to cell growth in MEFs transformed by v - Src .
Our results indicate that HCMV elevates cellular p53 levels on the order of 10 - to 20 - fold in infected fibroblasts .
The p53 tumor suppressor plays pivotal role in the organism by supervising strict compliance of individual cells to needs of the whole organisms .
Excessive vascular development and blood vessel remodeling appears in psoriasis , rheumatoid arthritis , diabetic retinopathy and solid tumors formation .
It is proposed that the switch from tumor suppressor to oncogene reflects genetic or epigenetic alterations in signaling pathways in tumor cells that alter the readout from the TGFbeta1 pathway .
However , during each phase of the disease , low levels of TGF - beta RII were detected when compared with the hematopoietic cells of normal donors .
Together , our results provide not only a novel insight into the mechanisms underlying anti - tumor activity of E1A , but also a rationale for the combined HDACi and E1A gene therapy in future clinical trials .
Physiological angiogenesis is regulated by various factors , including signaling through vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) receptors .
N - methyl - N - nitrosourea - induced transformation of rat urothelial cells in vitro is not mediated by activation of ras oncogenes .
These results suggest that MnSO4 co - operates with overexpressed c - myc in inducing transformation , while 5 - azacytidine transformation is independent of c - myc overexpression and may involve alterations in the regulation of apoptosis .
The B ( 1 ) R appeared either as cytoplasmic dots or labeling on the apical cell membrane of the cells composing the epithelia with intestinal metaplasia ( 24 / 24 ; 100 % ) and carcinoma in situ ( 10 / 10 ; 100 % ) and in the epithelial cells of adenomas .
p63 - positive cells were found in 16 % of carcinomas .
Molecular requirements for epithelial - mesenchymal transition during tumor progression .
The scope of the present review is to discuss from a clinical point of view the potential interactions between VEGF and angiopoietins in the asthmatic airways , and focus on the therapeutic implications targeting for these angiogenic factors .
The cellular and molecular mechanisms by which a tumour cell undergoes metastasis to a predetermined location are largely unknown .
Administration of 317615 x 2HCl along with carboplatin to animals bearing the SKOV - 3 tumor produced a 1 . 8 - fold increase in lifespan compared with carboplatin alone .
These results suggest that non - thrombogenic agonists or antagonists of the activated thrombin receptor can be used as modulators of angiogenesis .
In contrast , in the presence of GM - CSF or FBS , apoptosis was enhanced upon addition of CHX or Act D .
In vitro studies found that exposure to Cum - OOH reduced the level of glutathione ( GSH ) in mouse epidermal cells ( JB6 P + ) and caused the induction of AP - 1 .
While in control specimens are ara - C dose - dependent increase in 3H - ara - C uptake was accompanied by a corresponding rise in intracellular ara - C - 5 ' triphosphate ( ara - CTP ) levels , ara - CTP concentrations were not increased after GM - CSF or IL - 3 exposure , resulting in a higher ara - C to ara - CTP ratio over controls .
Continuous ( 24h ) treatment with 5 microM doxorubicin resulted in cell cycle arrest in G0 / G1 phase that was neither accompanied by phosphorylation and activation of p53 nor enhanced expression of p21 .
VM is critical for a tumor blood supply and is asscociated with aggressive features and metastasis .
These results suggest the possibility that BV may exert an anti - tumor effect on human lung cancer .
Crucial genetic events underlying the initiation and progression of colorectal and pancreatic adenocarcinoma with a particular focus on the modulation of angiogenesis and antiangiogenic therapies are discussed .
In vivo IL - 12 - dependent tumor inhibition rests on the ability of IL - 12 to activate a CD8 - mediated cytotoxicity , inhibit angiogenesis , and cause vascular injury .
Transforming growth factor - beta ( TGF - beta ) , a major factor in the activation of fibroblasts , increased alpha - SMA and desmin expression and the ability of cell migration and invasion in NIH3T3 cells .
In contrast , the incidence and density of somatostatin receptors in peritumoral vessels was low in well - differentiated gastrointestinal and bronchial carcinoids , in contrast to the high density of such receptors in the carcinoid tumor tissue .
The 3 - year disease - free survival ( DFS ) and overall survival ( OS ) of patients with tumors expressing different levels of COUP - TFII were evaluated by the Kaplan - Meier method .
Ectopic expression of SEMA3B or SEMA3F reduced soft - agar colony formation , adhesion , and cell invasion of ovarian cancer cell cultures .
RESULTS : The bone grafts were found revascularization in 3 days after surgery in the test group , whereas at 2 weeks in the control group .
In addition to having a direct effect on tumor cells , vitamins such as alpha - tocopheryl succinate and beta - carotene enhance the effect of other agents that induce differentiation in tumor cells .
Insulin - like growth factor I induces tumor hexokinase RNA expression in cancer cells .
To test the hypothesis that 20 - HETE increases endothelial cell ( EC ) proliferation via vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , we studied the effects of WIT003 [ 20 - hydroxyeicosa - 5 ( Z ) , 14 ( Z ) - dienoic acid ] , a 20 - HETE analog on human macrovascular or microvascular EC .
H4 cells formed tight , round spheroids whereas H5 cells formed loose , grape - like structures .
Because of this , and the virtual explosion of interest in pomegranate as a medicinal and nutritional product that has followed , this review is accordingly launched .
3 - BrPA ( 3 - bromopyruvate ) is an alkylating agent with anti - tumoral activity on hepatocellular carcinoma .
We have investigated the putative role of rho proteins from Aplysia californica as transforming GTPases utilizing the wild - type and a Val - 14 mutant , equivalent to the oncogenic Val - 12 mutation of ras genes found in animal and human tumors .
Angiopoietin - 2 ( Ang - 2 ) is prominently up - regulated in the host - derived vasculature of most tumors , making it an attractive candidate for antiangiogenic intervention .
Surprisingly , TSP - 2 expression was strongly upregulated in the mesenchymal stroma of wild - type mice throughout the consecutive stages of tumorigenesis whereas the angiogenesis factor , vascular endothelial growth factor , was induced predominantly in tumor cells .
Similar results have been obtained with tumor cell lines and experimental animal models .
Molecular mechanisms of pituitary tumorigenesis were studied using Polymerase chain reaction - single stranded conformational polymorphism with DNA sequencing to identify potential mutations in the ras protooncogenes and the tumor suppressor gene p53 in invasive pituitary adenomas and carcinomas .
Synthetic vascular prostheses are foreign bodies , so that blood coagulation can occur on their luminal surfaces , causing graft occlusion very frequently in prostheses of small diameter .
After inhibition of gluconeogenesis , the plasma glucose decreased and the blood lactate increased significantly more in TB than NTB animals .
In the manual count analysis , there was no significant relation between MDM2 overexpression and outcome .
The results were analysed using quantitative immunohistochemical analysis .
At necropsy , all macroscopic colonic tumors were identified and histologically classified as dysplasia or adenocarcinoma .
[ Tumor metastasis and the fibrinolytic system ] .
In contrast , we have previously reported that total nm23 messenger RNA ( mRNA ) expression is increased to similar levels in colon tumors of both high and low metastatic potential .
While the response to most treatments was not affected by the VHL gene status , glucose deprivation was found to be much more cytotoxic for RCC cells lacking VHL gene function than for wtVHL - expressing cells .
Curcumin inhibits metastatic progression of breast cancer cell through suppression of urokinase - type plasminogen activator by NF - kappa B signaling pathways .
In the absence of both GM - CSF and fetal bovine serum ( FBS ) , 70 % of the DNA was fragmented after 3 days in culture , with a characteristic apoptotic ladder - like pattern on agarose gel electrophoresis , whereas this proportion had initially been < 5 % .
uPA and uPAR levels were not significantly associated with tumour staging or survival .
Cells treated with anti - Fas also exhibited increased tyrosine phosphorylation of the c - met growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase .
The presence of activating mutations has been demonstrated in the TSH - R gene as well as in the Gs alpha protein gene in thyroid toxic adenoma resulting in the constitutive activation of the cAMP pathway and it has been hypothesised that these genetic alterations may play a causative role in the disease .
The current data also suggest that administration of antiangiogenic reagents can prevent progression of pulmonary metastasis in osteosarcoma postoperatively .
Repeated rounds of mutation , selection , and proliferation may lead to cancer .
Molecular modeling studies suggested that mutation N172D , located within the substrate binding region , is mainly responsible for impaired mutCK1delta activity .
Two small RNAs ( 0 . 9 and 0 . 75 kb ) , named Marek ' s disease virus ( MDV ) small RNAs ( MSRs ) and a 10 - kb RNA , all of which map antisense to the MDV ICP4 homolog gene , have been readily detected in MDCC - MSB1 MDV - transformed T - lymphoblastoid cells .
WT1 was isolated as a tumor suppressor gene of Wilms tumor .
In these settings TNF demonstrates potent and selective activity on the tumor vascular bed , which strongly improves tumor response .
Metastatic carcinoma of unknown primary origin is a perplexing but common problem , accounting for up to 10 % to 15 % of all solid tumors at presentation .
The antibody also blocks ligand - stimulated activation of PDGFRbeta and downstream signaling molecules , including Akt and MAPK p42 / 44 , in tumor cells .
The early closure of all wounds implies that the rabbit ear model may not be valid for chronic wound studies .
Ras p21 onco - protein in the sera of mice carrying an experimentally induced tumor and in human cancer patients .
Ang - 1 has been shown to induce the migration and sprouting of endothelial cells , and coexpression of Ang - 1 and VEGF enhanced angiogenesis .
Estimation of lectin binding site and pattern was useful to evaluate the malignant potential of cell proliferation .
Killing tumor cells through their surface beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin or major histocompatibility complex class I molecules .
In a multivariate analysis D2 - 40 + was the strongest predictor for ALNM with an odds ratio of 3 . 489 and a P - value of P = 0 . 0003 , followed only by T - stage and grading with odds ratios of 3 . 167 and 1 . 953 and P - values P = 0 . 0003 and P = 0 . 0352 .
The tyrosine kinase inhibitor cediranib blocks ligand - induced vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 3 activity and lymphangiogenesis .
This review will focus on recent studies to define the molecular mechanisms for the antivascular actions of the MBDs , information that could be useful in the identification or design of agents whose actions more selectively target the tumor vasculature .
This action is not observed with uninfected CEF , and , therefore , appears to require some expression of the viral src gene in the target cells .
Interestingly , the high glutamine uptake was maintained in the presence of glucose .
The present study shows that a mutant with an LMP1 site - specific mutation at TES2 , LMP1 ( TRADD ) , initially stimulates cell growth and significantly extends the life span of MEF .
Untransformed CEF and CEF transformed with Rous sarcoma virus also migrated to 9E3 / CEF4 protein , as measured by Boyden single - membrane analysis .
Adenovirus - mediated p53 gene transfer is ineffective in causing apoptosis in glioma cells that retain wild - type p53 genotype or overexpress the p21 protein .
Granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor and interleukin - 3 enhance the incorporation of cytosine arabinoside into the DNA of leukemic blasts and the cytotoxic effect on clonogenic cells from patients with acute myeloid leukemia .
It is regulated by numerous angiogenic factors , one of the most important being vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
Antiangiogenesis therapy might have a role in reducing regional metastasis .
Recruiting a new blood supply is a rate - limiting step in tumor progression .
Here , we review the molecular basis of AID regulation , targeting , and initiation of CSR and SHM , as well as AID ' s role in generating chromosome translocations that contribute to lymphomagenesis .
We investigated the presence of COUP - TFII in human colorectal cancer tissues and adjacent normal tissues from 95 primary colorectal cancer patients by immunohistochemistry .
Multiple stages of malignant transformation of human endothelial cells modelled by co - expression of telomerase reverse transcriptase , SV40 T antigen and oncogenic N - ras .
In vivo studies after dosing on Days 6 , 7 , and 8 demonstrated the same reductions in nucleic acid synthesis and a moderate reduction in protein synthesis .
However , the increase in visual acuity is variable , probably due to the extent of RPE damage .
Class - 3 semaphorins , semaphorin - 3B ( SEMA3B ) and semaphorin - 3F ( SEMA3F ) , illustrate their effects by forming a complex with neuropilins ( NP - 1 or NP - 2 ) and plexins .
These events are associated with a short survival and support the concept of a cooperative effect of BCR - ABL with molecular RUNX1 abnormalities on the differentiation arrest phenotype observed during progression of CML and in BCR - ABL + ALL .
CX3CR1 - dependent subretinal microglia cell accumulation is associated with cardinal features of age - related macular degeneration .
Immunohistochemistry examinations in the human surgical specimens have shown that a downregulation of TSP - 1 during the progression of cervical carcinogenesis was accompanied by an emergence in the upregulation of stroma markers , alpha - smooth muscle actin ( alpha - SMA ) and desmin .
Drug delivery to solid tumors is one of the most challenging aspects in cancer therapy .
However , no changes were observed in the presence of netrin - 1 .
Comparison of tissue integration between polyester and polypropylene prostheses in the preperitoneal space .
The area and the area ratio were measured using a calibrated micrometer .
We show here that p10 , which arises from the use of an alternative splice donor site within intron 1 , is conserved in the mouse genome and is widely expressed in mouse tissues .
Partial tissue oxygen tension ( PtO ( 2 ) ) was measured with polarographic microprobes ; epithelial metabolism was monitored by microdialysis inside the TET epithelium perfused with the medium underneath .
Mutations affecting nuclear transport were far more critical for the ability to interfere with myogenic differentiation than were those affecting the transforming potential ; cytoplasmic SVLT expression was fully compatible with the terminal differentiation of C2 cells , despite enabling them to grow in semisolid medium , thus showing that the myogenesis - inhibiting property can be dissociated from transforming competence .
CONCLUSIONS : We have found that patients with RDEB have elevated levels of bFGF , which may contribute to increased fibroblast collagenase and the development of squamous cell carcinoma .
This study uses quantitative histomorphometry and double - immunohistologic detection techniques for the demarcation of proliferating endothelial cells , to show that synchronized hair follicle cycling in adolescent C57BL / 6 mice is associated with substantial angiogenesis , and that inhibiting angiogenesis in vivo by the intraperitoneal application of a fumagillin derivative retards experimentally induced anagen development in these mice .
The binding activity of NF - kappaB to DNA was examined in nuclear extracts using Trans - AM NF - kappaB ELISA kit .
Since all these cells lack any mRNA for collagen , XII , it seems likely that the synthesis is blocked at the transcriptional level .
The delayed application of corticosteroids after treatment with antimycotic drugs in cases of fungal keratitis is therefore not contraindicated and may be beneficial in patients .
In this study , we found that elevated levels of ErbB - 3 expression did not occur in the absence of AP - 2gamma in a panel of human mammary epithelial and fibroblasts cell lines .
Furthermore , we found that p130 ( Cas ) , but not paxillin , recruited Crk to the nascent focal complex .
Thus , nicked beta2GPI exerts dual effects on angiogenesis , that is , nicked beta2GPI promotes angiogenesis in the presence of AS4 . 5 , whereas nicked beta2GPI inhibits angiogenesis at concentrations high enough to neutralize AS4 . 5 .
In addition to p16 ( INK4A ) , the INK4A locus encodes a splice variant , termed p12 - - specifically expressed in human pancreas - - and ARF , a protein encoded by an alternative reading frame that acts as a tumor suppressor through the p53 pathway .
Patient charts were reviewed for visual acuity of the treated eye before PDT and at 6 - and 12 - month follow - up examinations .
After 15 days , the clots were examined by histology and electron microscopy .
Paclitaxel treatment resulted in MAPK activation and apoptosis of MDA - MB - 231 breast cancer cells , and both processes were inhibited by Dex pretreatment .
On the other hand , when cells were pre - incubated in glucose - supplemented medium , oxygen consumption was affected only when succinate was used as the oxidizable substrate .
Our current data suggest that gamma rays worked as an initiator of carcinogenesis in normal human cells , giving rise to chromosome aberrations and immortality , and the Ha - ras oncogene played a role in the progression of the immortally transformed cell population to a neoplastic one showing enhanced colony formation in soft agar and tumorigenicity in nude mice .
FOXO3a is a transcription factor that elicits a protective response to diverse cellular stresses .
Directed EC migration is a central step in this process and depends on cellular signaling cascades that initiate and control the structural rearrangements .
The combination diagnosis / treatment device should be useful in optimizing FV treatment and in refining and evaluating the efficacy of DEP in future clinical trials .
Cells were perifused in the presence of 5 mM glucose , 0 . 5 mM glutamine or 5 mM glucose and 0 . 5 mM glutamine .
In vitro studies using monolayer cultures of human tumor cell lines have shown that 2 - DG selectively inhibits energy - dependent DNA repair and cellular recovery processes in cancer cells .
Pak1 associates with the complex of DLC1 and BimL , a proapoptotic BH3 - only protein , and phosphorylates both proteins .
p - XSC also decreases Akt phosphorylation as well as Akt - specific phosphorylation of the AR .
We demonstrated that Evi - 1 represses TGF - beta signaling and antagonizes its growth - inhibitory effects .
The authors detected both nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 mRNA levels in 47 tissues samples of patients with carcinoma of buccal mucosa ( CBM ) by quantitative reverse transcription PCR amplification .
The aim of this study was to characterize the distribution of hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 in normal and cancerous ovarian tissue and to examine the effects of LL - 37 on ovarian cancer cells .
Numerous products from fruits , vegetable and traditional medicinal plants have been described which can suppress TNF expression and TNF signaling but their clinical potential is yet uncertain .
Cooperative transformation by c - MYC and OSM required PI3K and AKT signaling , showing the importance of multiple signaling pathways downstream of the OSM receptor in defining the cellular response to cytokines .
As antagonists were used the tripeptide FPR and non - peptide 1 , 4 - disubstituted piperazine derivatives .
The distinction between these two possibilities is made based on clinicopathologic observations , and therefore may not be definitive .
The role of fibrinolysis in growth and metastasis was examined in Lewis lung carcinoma of mice .
The effect of ATX secretion on in vitro cell motility was variable .
Our data indicates that this therapeutic approach markedly promotes angiogenesis and granulation tissue formation in comparison with other conditions 14 days after wounding .
Targets identified in these novel and diverse FH - deficient models represent excellent potential candidates for further mechanistic investigation and therapeutic metabolic manipulation in tumors .
Nevertheless , the repression of VEGF - C was lost in mutant VHL cell lines under hypoxia .
The fact that viral or other adjunctive vectors were not required further suggests that secreted gene products may have potential therapeutic utility even when the number of successfully transfected cells remains low .
This contrasts with recent evidence suggesting that the Wave complex may function as an invasion suppressor in epithelial cancers .
Depletion of Rab7a decreased VEGFR2 Y1175 phosphorylation but increased p42 / 44 ( pERK1 / 2 ) MAPK phosphorylation .
The mechanisms whereby RNA leukemia viruses cause lymphoid neoplasia after a long latent period have been extensively studied but are only partially understood .
In addition , filopodia formation , a feature of motile cells , was inhibited in PECAM - 1 - null endothelial cells as well as in human endothelial cells treated with either anti - PECAM - 1 antibody or PECAM - 1 siRNA .
Transduction of BMSVTs with hTERT resulted in immortalization of 4 out of 4 cultures .
Vimentin expression , growth fractions ( GF ) , and estrogen receptor ( ER ) levels were determined for 90 untreated primary breast carcinomas .
They were consistent with the concept of the existence of 2 pools of both lactate and pyruvate , of which 1 pool was closely connected with exogenous lactate and oxidative metabolism , and the other pool was closely related to glycolysis and disconnected from oxidative metabolism .
Many studies on carcinogenesis carried out early in the last century are united on the consensus that cancer is a genetic disease .
Here we report that the chemotherapeutic drug doxorubicin , a DNA - damaging agent , activates a p53 - survivin signaling pathway inducing cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ) .
The Hedgehog pathway antagonist cyclopamine effectively reduced Shh - induced proliferation to control levels .
Highly metastatic IV Cl 1 cells expressed approximately 5 fold lower levels of protein encoded by NME genes than non - metastatic IV Cl 3 cells .
Notch receptors and ligands ( Jagged and Delta - like ) play a critical role in this process in addition to VEGF .
A specific VEGF receptor - 2 inhibitor demonstrated the importance of glycogen metabolism and pentose cycle pathway .
Glutamine consumption in the presence of glucose was higher than with glutamine alone .
Combination therapy was more effective , and completely eliminated tumor in 4 of 12 IFN - GM - CSF and 8 of 11 IFN - IL - 2 animals .
METHODS : LOH of epigenetic microsatellites of PTEN ( D10S541 , D10S583 and D10S1687 ) in advanced gastric cancer was detected by PCR - SSCP .
VEGF is a potent activator of angiogenesis as it promotes endothelial cell proliferation and new blood vessel formation .
Up - regulation of fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 ( FGFR2 ) , which showed the most significant change , was detected in all six tested TFs compared with their paired normal fibroblasts .
Diverse cell signaling events modulated by perlecan .
Therefore , to understand their role in tumor invasion , it is necessary to evaluate them collectively .
The fact that some vitamins induce cell differentiation and / or growth inhibition in tumor cells in culture suggests that the use of these vitamins in cancer prevention has a cellular basis .
Treated animals also displayed a 2 . 4 - fold reduction of tumor vascular endothelial growth factor mRNA levels .
These results show that the actin - binding domain of Abl enhances leukemia development but does not appear to be an absolute requirement for leukemogenesis .
Identification of Dss1 as a 12 - O - tetradecanoylphorbol - 13 - acetate - responsive gene expressed in keratinocyte progenitor cells , with possible involvement in early skin tumorigenesis .
Functional studies showed that Sema7A stimulates cytoskeletal reorganization in human melanocytes , resulting in adhesion and dendrite formation .
This review will focus on the evidence for TGFbeta1 as a tumor promoting and metastasis factor and examine the biological and molecular basis for these effects .
However , the process of tumor blood vessel formation is complex , and each tumor exhibits unique features in its vasculature .
In DNA from the T - cells not expressing DR alpha mRNA , all of the potential HpaII sites within the BglII fragment appeared to be methylated .
Although AID activity is focused at Immunoglobulin ( Ig ) gene loci , it also targets a wide array of non - Ig genes including oncogenes associated with lymphomas .
Correspondingly , Ang - 2 manipulatory therapies have been shown to exert protumorigenic as well as antitumorigenic effects .
Male double Smad1 Smad5 conditional knockout mice are fertile but demonstrate metastatic testicular tumor development .
Immunocytochemistry revealed that endosialin was present in the cytoplasmic body and in the elongated extensions essential to pericyte function .
Gliomas are the most common primary tumours of the central nervous system , with nearly 15 , 000 diagnosed annually in the United States and a lethality approaching 80 % within the first year of glioblastoma diagnosis .
The finding of differential SSTR expression raises the potential for SSTR expression to be evaluated as a marker of response to somatostatin analogs .
Inoculation of these cells in athymic mice decreases mouse spleen natural killer ( NK ) cell activity .
To elucidate the role of free radicals and leukocytes in MTX - induced oxidative organ damage and the putative protective effect of L - carnitine ( L - Car ) , Wistar albino rats were administered a single dose of MTX ( 20 mg / kg ) followed by either saline or L - Car ( 500 mg / kg ) for 5 days .
However , unlike tumor invasion , trophoblast invasion of the uterus is stringently controlled in situ by local molecules such as transforming growth factor ( TGF ) beta .
Topo I expression now needs to be evaluated in patients undergoing topo I - inhibitor therapy , to better define the role of this protein as a predictive marker .
We have previously reported that intercellular adhesion molecule - 3 ( ICAM - 3 ) is associated with an increase of cellular radio - resistance and cancer cell proliferation .
The rabbits were sacrificed and the specimens were procured at 3 days , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 and 6 weeks after surgery for histological observation , Chinese ink perfusion and CD34 immunohistochemistry .
In 3 months - old mice , pigmented cells were detected in spleen and inguinal lymph nodes .
The protein and water component of brain edema were indirectly quantitated .
Stimulation of angiogenesis by adipose tissue was nearly abolished by bevacizumab , which specifically targets human VEGF .
Perlecan was found to be anti - adhesive for platelets , however after removal of the HS chains attached to perlecan , platelet adhesion and aggregation were supported .
Genomic instability is one mechanism proposed to play a role in the disease progression of chronic myeloid leukemia ( CML ) .
These data suggest that VEGF plays a key role in the angiogenic response that occurs with chronic bradycardia .
Here we show that exponentially growing NIH 3T3 fibroblasts recently transformed by Ha - ras or Ki - ras possess elevated DG concentrations without significant alterations in the levels of other polyphosphoinositide metabolites .
Both tumor - bearing ( TB ) and nontumor bearing ( NTB ) animals were gaining weight prior to study and the tumors were relatively small .
TNF - alpha is also an essential component of the immune system and is required for hematopoiesis , for protection from bacterial infection and for immune cell - mediated cytotoxicity .
CONCLUSIONS : Our study provides new candidate genes for the esophageal cancer microenvironment .
Protein kinase activities in immune complexes of simian virus 40 large T - antigen and transformation - associated cellular p53 protein .
HTPB delayed lung metastasis of 4T1 mouse breast cancer cells .
uPAR is also coexpressed with caveolin and members of the integrin adhesion receptor superfamily .
Since congenital neutropenia and SDS are inherited forms of bone marrow failure , G - CSF may accelerate the propensity for MDS / AML in the genetically altered stem and progenitor cells , especially in those with G - CSF receptor and ras mutations ( 82 % and 50 % of patients who transform , respectively ) .
Upon investigation , intrachromosomal gene amplification of Met , a receptor tyrosine kinase implicated in melanoma progression , was identified in Cdkn2a - deficient tumors .
Recent studies have shown that 14 - 3 - 3zeta interacted with other key cellular proteins involved in the tumor development and progression .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : Both bone marrow and peripheral blood samples from 810 gastric cancer patients were collected at the Central Hospital , National Cancer Center ( Tokyo , Japan ) .
We show here that constitutively active STAT3 acts as a master regulator of cell metabolism , inducing aerobic glycolysis and down - regulating mitochondrial activity both in primary fibroblasts and in STAT3 - dependent tumour cell lines .
Strikingly , Tip30 deletion promotes proliferation of primary MECs and results in rapid immortalization of MECs in vitro relative to wild - type cells .
Interestingly , crossing of cyclin D1 transgenic mice with E mu L - myc transgenics that express their transgene in both B - and T - cells but predominantly develop T - cell tumours leads in double transgenics exclusively to B - cell neoplasia .
Coronary collateral circulation ( CCC ) was analyzed according to the Rentrop system .
PURPOSE : To evaluate alterations in the retinal vasculature overlying pigment epithelial detachments ( PED ) in exudative age - related macular degeneration ( ARMD ) using indocyanine green and fluorescein angiography .
The stromal fibrous reaction associated to infiltrating carcinomas is responsible of focal increased density , and architectural distorsion , ultrasound acoustic shadowing ; abnormal neoangiogenesis can be detected by Doppler , CT or MR imaging .
A reduction in alpha - catenin expression and p53 overexpression correlated to lymph node metastases , respectively .
CONCLUSIONS : This study has identified that the MMP / TIMP profile is an independent indicator of poor prognosis in colorectal cancer .
Some responders with congenital neutropenia and Shwachman - Diamond syndrome ( SDS ) have developed myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia ( MDS / AML ) , which raises the question of the role of G - CSF in pathogenesis .
No effective medical therapies have been developed sofar to enhance blood flow in the legs of patients with peripheral arterial disease ( PAD ) .
In vivo effects of insulin on tumor and skeletal muscle glucose metabolism in patients with lymphoma .
An exception is the adaptive immune system where lymphocytes utilize programmed DNA damage to effect antigen receptor diversification .
The portion of the LTR responsible for trans activation was mapped by deletions to lie within the U3 region .
In 1986 , Dvorak went on to demonstrate that VPF was secreted by a variety of human tumor cell lines and proposed that VPF was in part responsible for the abnormal vasculature seen in human tumors .
In contrast , tube formation was significantly reduced by SMI496 , a beta1 I - like domain inhibitor and by function - blocking anti - alpha2beta1 but not - alpha1beta1 antibodies .
However many human carcinomas overexpress TGFbeta1 and this is associated with poor patient prognosis and increased frequency of metastasis .
KISS1 methylation was associated with increasing stage ( P = 0 . 001 ) and tumor grade ( P = 0 . 010 ) .
Molecular and cell - physiological analyses have improved the understanding of tumour biology and provide the opportunity for new therapeutic approaches .
The migration activity of mast cell conditioned medium was resistant to heat ( 100 degrees C ) and incubation with proteolytic enzymes .
This finding may be explained by a stimulatory effect of GM - CSF and IL - 3 on ara - C phosphorylating enzymes and a more rapid incorporation of ara - CTP into the DNA of leukemic blasts .
In uremic patients , NOS activity is positively correlated with the duration of PD .
Furthermore , the effects of a selective NF - kappaB inhibitor , NEMO - binding domain ( NBD ) peptide , on metastasis in GSAS / N5 - engrafted mice were assessed , and engrafted tongue tumors were immunohistochemically examined .
Matrix metalloproteinase activity , determined using a quenched fluorescence substrate assay , increased during early healing ( 3 - 8 weeks ) compared to controls , and then decreased between 24 and 36 weeks after surgery ( p less than 0 . 05 until 24 weeks , Mann - Whitney U - test ) .
It was demonstrated that ovarian tumor tissue lysates and ovarian cancer cell lines express hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 .
Human papillomavirus oncoprotein E6 inactivates the transcriptional coactivator human ADA3 .
In human endothelial cells , cediranib inhibited VEGF - E - induced phosphorylation of VEGFR - 2 and VEGF - C156S - induced phosphorylation of VEGFR - 3 at concentrations of less than / = 1nmol / L and inhibited activation of downstream signaling molecules .
Anagen - associated angiogenesis offers an attractive model for identifying the physiologic controls of cutaneous angiogenesis , and an interesting system for screening the effects of potential antiangiogenic drugs in vivo .
Platelets release several growth factors and bioactive agents that play a central role in development of not only thrombus but also of intimal thickening .
Regardless how death is inflicted , every cancer cell must die , be it fast or slow .
We previously reported that a single dose of ethanol ( 1 . 4 g / kg ) , yielding a blood alcohol concentration of 100 mg / dl , significantly impairs angiogenesis in murine wounds , despite adequate levels of VEGF , suggesting direct effects of ethanol on endothelial cell signaling ( 40 ) .
The median time to disease progression while on treatment was 24 weeks .
There is evidence in experimental and clinical studies that adult bone marrow - derived stem cells and endothelial progenitor cells participate in the development of new blood vessels , called neoangiogenesis or neovascularization .
The optimal duration of chemotherapy in patients with early and metastatic colorectal cancer is unclear .
Neurovascular effects of CD47 signaling : promotion of cell death , inflammation , and suppression of angiogenesis in brain endothelial cells in vitro .
This approach revealed a previously unrecognized transcriptional target of ELK - 1 , the human tissue plasminogen activator ( tPA ) .
CSC - high C6 cell cultures also induced higher levels of endothelial cell proliferation and tubule organization in vitro compared with CSC - low cultures .
Desipramine inhibits the growth of a mouse skin squamous cell carcinoma cell line and affects glucocorticoid receptor - mediated transcription .
This decrease persisted for the remaining 2 weeks of treatment .
This model highlighted the role of VEGF in angiogenesis in both SAT and VAT .
RESULTS : The average fibrinogen levels in patients with pancreatic carcinoma , ( 476 . 21 + / - 142 . 05 ) mg / dl , were significantly higher than in patients with cholangiolithiasis , ( 403 . 28 + / - 126 . 41 ) mg / dl ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
METHODS : To evaluate antiangiogenic activity of cRGD - HL , we performed tests on endothelial cell adhesion and migration to vitronectin , tube formation , binding affinity to purified alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) integrin , and in vivo Matrigel plug assay .
One cell line ( ESM - 1 ) derived from the erythrophores transfected with src / myc grew successively over nine months , indicating its acquisition of immortality .
These results strongly suggest that Dss1 is a TPA - inducible gene that may play an important role in the early stages of skin carcinogenesis .
Potential roles for focal adhesion kinase in development .
Similarly , the human INK4B locus encodes the p15 ( INK4B ) tumor suppressor and one alternatively spliced form , termed as p10 .
Moreover , TKI - 31 dose - dependently suppressed HUVEC tube formation .
Curcumin also significantly decreased ( P < 0 . 05 ) the expression of uPA and NF - kappaB DNA binding activity , respectively .
In the present study , we developed the first specific inhibitors of the pyruvate kinase isoenzyme type M2 and present evidence that these inhibitors moderately decelerate tumor cell proliferation .
The initial step of adhesion was mediated by sialyl Lewis ( x ) ( Le ( x ) ) and sialyl Le ( a ) , the carbohydrate determinants expressed on the cancer cells , and E - selectin expressed constitutively on F - 2 cells .
The cells invasion was demonstrated by transwell assay .
It is concluded that there is no major difference between the PET investigation of glucose metabolism and the less expensive SPET measurement of amino acid uptake in terms of their accuracy in evaluating the malignancy grade of primary brain tumours .
VDAs can be divided into biologics , such as ligand - based , and small - molecule agents ; this second group includes small - molecule VDAs like flavonoids , such as 5 , 6 - dimethylxanthenone - 4 - acetic acid ( DMXAA ) , and microtubule - destabilizing agents .
On the contrary , metronomic 5 - FU + L - OHP + CPT - 11 therapy did not affect the microvascular count .
Lactoferrin enhances Fas expression and apoptosis in the colon mucosa of azoxymethane - treated rats .
Neoplastic transformation of ciliary body epithelium is associated with loss of opticin expression .
It is considered that resection of the primary tumor induces activation of systemic angiogenesis and enhances progression of remote metastasis .
RESULTS : The cRGD - HL significantly inhibited adhesion and migration of endothelial cells to vitronectin , and tubular structures of endothelial cells .
The organism prevents malignant transformation by assuring accurate DNA repair before cell division , by forcing the death of cells with excessive DNA damage , and by placing limits on the replicative lifespans of most somatic cells .
In all cases , there was complete concordance between the effects of hypoxia and AdCA5 .
Another marker being investigated in the context of vascular dysfunction and coagulopathy is the endothelial microparticle ( EMP ) .
Among the pathways involved in pericyte recruitment during embryonic development , the contribution of platelet - derived growth factor B and sphingosine 1 - phosphate is confirmed in tumour angiogenesis .
Mast cells were found to be unique among the peritoneal leukocytes by virtue of their capacity to enhance profoundly the proliferation of a variety of tumors in vitro .
Although one mutant allele was detected in revertant EMS - 1 - 19 , overexpression of this mutant allele failed to inhibit v - fos induced cell transformation .
TIMP2 and TIMP3 play functional role in LPA - induced invasion as negative regulators .
PURPOSE : Control of the natural course of subretinal neovascularization ( SRNV ) in age - related macular degeneration ( AMD ) is difficult .
Therefore , we confirmed the key findings by replicating these experiments in human neuroblastoma SK - N - SH cells .
Calretinin .
Multivariate analysis showed that cooccurrence of reduced expression of alpha - catenin and overexpression of p53 was an independent factor indicating lymph node metastases .
Using wound - healing assay and Boyden chamber assay , GA had potent inhibitory effects on AGS cell migration .
The acquisition of the metastatic phenotype induced by UV - B could not be attributed to abnormalities in the p53 or MTS - 1 ( p16INK4 ) genes .
Interestingly , neovascularization of the implants irradiated with 10 fractions ( 3000 cGy ) was not significantly decreased compared with irradiation with three fractions ( 900 cGy ) .
Inhibition of energy - producing pathways of HepG2 cells by 3 - bromopyruvate .
Recently , we reported candidate target genes of Evi - 1 shared in HSCs and leukemic cells using gene expression profiling analysis .
Our results indicated that HTPB was a pan - HDAC inhibitor in suppressing cell viability specifically of lung cancer cells but not of the normal lung cells .
Knowledge of 14 - 3 - 3zeta and beta - catenin expression and clinical significance in the same tumor tissues is limited .
Our data establish a novel role for SHP - 2 phosphatase in the dopamine - mediated regulation of VEGFR - 2 phosphorylation .
Therefore , angiogenesis depends on sustained ERK activity regulated by the ligation state of both a growth factor receptor and integrin alphavbeta3 .
Subcutaneous implantation of bFGF loaded PLGA - heparin microspheres in mice significantly induced the formation of new vascular microvessels .
It is concluded that its action is targeted to tumor neovasculature and the mechanism is inhibition of tumor angiogenesis .
RESULTS : Survivin expression was noted in 30 ( 81 % ) of breast carcinomas , and in normal breast tissue , in nuclei , and cytoplasm .
Angiostatin inhibits both ATP synthesis and ATP hydrolysis ( Moser et al . , 2001 ) and interferes with intracellular pH regulation ( Wahl and Grant , 2002 ; Wahl et al . , 2002 ) .
The fact that the apoptotic and antiproliferative functions of p53 can be dissociated in certain mutants also suggests another level of complexity in the relationships between p53 inactivation and neoplasia .
DNA microarray analysis of treated tumor xenografts revealed significantly decreased expression of genes regulating glucose and thymidine metabolism and revealed changes in apoptotic genes , suggesting that the imaging tracers FDG , 3 - deoxy - 3 - [ ( 18 ) F ] fluorothymidine , and annexin V could serve as potential imaging biomarkers for RAF265 therapy monitoring .
The aptamer - induced dimerization and inactivation of M2 - PK led to a significant decrease in the PK mass - action ratio as well as ATP : ADP ratio in the target cells .
Genetic instability is a hallmark of human cancers .
Thus , our data show that allergic respiratory inflammation may represent a risk factor for the development of lung metastases and suggest that amelioration of the pulmonary inflammation associated with asthma will have a direct and immediate benefit to the 7 % to 8 % of breast cancer patients with this lung disease .
Here we show that expression of TEL in Ras - transformed NIH 3T3 cells inhibits cell growth in soft agar and in normal cultures .
In contrast , pellets from the CLA - fed animals contained fewer infiltrating cells , which formed limited branching cellular networks , the majority of which had collapsed lumen and no RBCs .
U . S . A .
These findings elucidate the molecular mechanisms of PTTG overexpression in promoting tumor metastasis , whereby up - regulated PTTG modulates expression and secretion of metastasis - related factors to facilitate cell motility .
BACKGROUND : Aberrant angiogenesis is a landmark feature in cancer , which is important for proliferation , growth and metastasis , and is mediated by various pro - angiogenic factors .
Long - term carcinogen exposure exerts continuous pressure on key mechanisms that repair or eliminate carcinogen - damaged cells giving rise to selective failures that contribute to lung cancer .
When transplanted in nude mice , tumors formed by the v - Src transformed SWAP - 70 ( - / - ) MEFs were smaller than those formed by cells expressing exogenous SWAP - 70 .
Immunohistochemical and in situ hybridization studies revealed the presence of IGF - I / II - IGF - IR ligands and mRNA transcripts in embryonic lungs as early as 4 wk gestation .
Chronic inflammation is a common underlying condition for human tumor development , accounting for approximately 20 % of human cancers .
The most common toxicity was skin rash ( 40 % ) ; myelosuppression and gastrointestinal side effects were uncommon .
We hypothesize that neuroblastoma cells will interact with host tissues to release mediators that affect apoptosis .
After the completion of skin development , angiogenesis , i . e . , the growth of new capillaries from pre - existing blood vessels , is held to occur in the skin only under pathologic conditions .
Rat tissues known to express these glucose transporters were used as controls .
Moreover , we show that subjecting transfected hepatoma cells to hypoxic conditions activates the type II hexokinase promoter almost 3 - fold , a value that approaches 7 - fold in the presence of glucose .
Administration of 317615 x 2HCl also increased the tumor growth delay produced by fractionated radiation therapy in the MX - 1 tumor .
We discuss cell lineages , proliferation and interactions of endothelial cells , pericytes and smooth muscle cells , and macrophages .
Thus , nuclear targeting of a specific 45 - kDa isoform of clusterin appeared to be an early and specific molecular signal triggering anoikis - death .
Each was legally blind before treatment ( n = 1 ) , experienced little to no subjective improvement ( n = 2 ) , or was poorly compliant ( n = 2 ) .
Bone destruction is primarily mediated by osteoclastic bone resorption , and cancer cells stimulate the formation and activation of osteoclasts next to metastatic foci .
CONCLUSION : Quantitative assessment is more sensitive as a measure of cellular protein content as compared with standard optical density measurements .
These results suggest that alterations of the microsatellite regions in the TGF - beta RII gene are not involved in the progression of CML .
Macrophages are essential mediators of inflammation and wound healing .
This aggregation process was irreversible and was inversely correlated with the percentage of lung cells that took up lipoplexes and with the efficiency of lipofection .
Furthermore , specific downregulation of either caspase - 9 , Bax , or Bak by siRNA effectively reduced PARP cleavage and caspase - 3 activation .
To the best of our knowledge , this is the first report to show that UV - B can increase the aggressiveness of human cutaneous melanoma for growth and metastasis .
RESULTS : There was a positive correlation between plasma fibrinogen levels and the depth of invasion ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
Another cell adhesion protein , beta 1 - integrin was not affected by E - cadherin expression .
317615 x 2HCl is a promising new antiangiogenic agent that is in early phase clinical testing .
Furthermore , we determined the ability of U - 995 to inhibiting tumor cell growth and metastasis .
The HDAC inhibition of HTPB was confirmed using HDAC activity assay .
Other anti - angiogenic therapies alter the immune response and endogeneous angiogenesis inhibitor levels .
Troponin I ( TnI ) is a novel cartilage - derived angiogenesis inhibitor , first demonstrated by Moses et al .
Activation of the canonical WNT / TCF pathway is identified here as a determinant of metastasis to brain and bone during lung adenocarcinoma progression .
CONCLUSIONS : We found that insulin does not induce major changes in glucose uptake of lymphomatous tissue .
We report that curcumin induces cell shrinkage , chromatin condensation , and DNA fragmentation , characteristics of apoptosis , in immortalized mouse embryo fibroblast NIH 3T3 erb B2 oncogene - transformed NIH 3T3 , mouse sarcoma S180 , human colon cancer cell HT - 29 , human kidney cancer cell 293 , and human hepatocellular carcinoma Hep G2 cells , but not in primary culture of mouse embryonic fibroblast C3H 10T1 / 2 , rat embryonic fibroblast , and human foreskin fibroblast cells in a concentration - and time - dependent manner .
The aims of the present study were to compare , in vitro and in vivo , the antiangiogenic and antitumor activities of metronomic irinotecan ( CPT - 11 ) , oxaliplatin ( L - OHP ) and 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) in colorectal cancer and to investigate the metronomic combination of these drugs .
We also show that VEGFR1 + cells express VLA - 4 ( also known as integrin alpha4beta1 ) , and that tumour - specific growth factors upregulate fibronectin - - a VLA - 4 ligand - - in resident fibroblasts , providing a permissive niche for incoming tumour cells .
To our knowledge , this is the first study to evaluate the effects of 2ME2 in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
Recently , significant improvements in survival have been achieved through the use of combination chemotherapy and monoclonal antibody regimens .
Transfection of SiHa cervical cancer cells with a plasmid expressing the TSP - 1 protein exhibited antiangiogenic activity in vitro and resulted in reduced tumor growth in severe combined immunodeficiency ( SCID ) mice , which was accompanied by a decrease in tumor vascularization and lower expressions of alpha - SMA and desmin than those in the vector controls .
Constitutively active RhoA ( FRTL - 5 - RhoA QL cells ) exhibited a fibroblast - like phenotype with organized actin fibers , whereas cells expressing the RhoA negative dominant phenotype ( FRTL - 5 - RhoA N19 cells ) present a rounded morphology and lose normal cytoskeletal architecture .
Moreover , the overexpression of IGF1 - R in these cells was associated with IGF1 - R - induced activation of Akt and up - regulation of the antiapoptotic protein Bcl - x ( L ) .
Normal and transforming functions of RUNX1 : a perspective .
However , biochemical screening cannot reliably discriminate the transition from C - cell hyperplasia to invasive microcarcinoma .
However , mechanism ( s ) by which VEGFR2 signaling and trafficking is coordinated are not clear .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : Fifteen patients with MEN II A ( aged 4 - 24 years ) who had undergone prophylactic thyroidectomy since 1990 were included in the study .
Basic fibroblast growth factor : a missing link between collagen VII , increased collagenase , and squamous cell carcinoma in recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa .
Infection with retroviruses containing transforming genes of the src and ras oncogene families led to rapid loss of epidermal growth factor dependence , in some cases , accompanied by alterations in cellular morphology .
In cell culture , the compound 317615 2HCl , a potent inhibitor of VEGF - stimulated HUVEC proliferation , was not very effective against MX - 1 breast cancer cells ( IC50 = 8 . 1 microM ) or SKOV - 3 ovarian carcinoma cells ( IC50 = 9 . 5 microM ) .
In in vivo study , liposomal honokiol significantly inhibited the tumor - associated lymphangiogenesis and metastasis in Lewis lung carcinoma model .
Hyperbaric oxygenation ( HBO ) may be a useful adjuvant to wound care .
Using isogenic human mammary epithelial cells ( HMEC ) at different stages of neoplastic transformation , we found that OSM signaling suppressed c - MYC expression and engaged a p16 - and p53 - independent growth arrest that required STAT3 activity .
Notch proteins are plasma membrane - spanning receptors that mediate important cell fate decisions such as differentiation , proliferation , and apoptosis .
At the time of brain biopsy , the primary site of tumor origin was known in 45 cases and unknown in 30 cases .
We show that LRP - 1 deficiency in murine embryonic fibroblasts ( MEFs ) is associated with increased levels of type III collagen and pigment epithelium - derived factor , which accumulate in the substratum surrounding cells .
The apparent mesenchymal to epithelial conversion of the tumor cells mimics the conversion that occurs during embryonic kidney development , suggesting that Met - HGF / SF signaling plays a role in this process as well as in tumors that express both epithelial and mesenchymal markers .
Bmi - 1 expression is elevated in most human gliomas , irrespective of grade , raising the question of whether Bmi - 1 over - expression is sufficient to promote self - renewal or tumorigenesis by CNS stem / progenitor cells .
Considering also that clusterin is downregulated during prostate cancer onset and progression , and that its upregulation has inhibited DNA synthesis and cell cycle progression of immortalized human prostate epithelial cells , we suggest that clusterin might be a new anti - oncogene in the prostate .
31P MR spectra showed that phosphocreatine was present in H5 spheroids but not in H4 spheroids or tumors .
Here we characterized the effects of mutant CK1delta variants with impaired kinase activity on SV40 - induced cell transformation in vitro , and on SV40 - induced mammary carcinogenesis in vivo in a transgenic / bi - transgenic mouse model .
The INK4 family of proteins negatively regulates cell cycle progression at the G ( 1 ) - S transition by inhibiting cyclin - dependent kinases .
Main outcome measures included best corrected visual acuity , ophthalmic examination , retinal photography , and angiography .
Surprisingly , functional p53 was retained in vivo , even after transplantation , whereas explanted tumor cells displayed rapid allele loss in vitro .
In conclusion , the decrease in c - Myc expression enhanced the VLB sensitivity , triggering earlier apoptosis through induction of the intrinsic pathway .
These findings are potentially clinically relevant , because HMGA2 expression is reported to be upregulated in a number of human cancers as telomere maintenance is essential for tumorigenesis .
This review summarises the evidence from 8 pivotal trials of cilostazol involving over 2000 patients with intermittent claudication treated for up to 6 months .
The Ha - ras oncogene alone did not convert normal human fibroblasts into either immortal or tumorigenic cells .
MMTV - cre - mediated fur inactivation concomitant with PLAG1 proto - oncogene activation delays salivary gland tumorigenesis in mice .
This induction was due to activation of autophagic flux , as there was further increase in LC3 - II expression upon treatment with lysosomal inhibitors , clear decline of the autophagy substrate p62 , and an mRFP - GFP - LC3 fluorescence change in sorafenib - treated hepatoma cells .
RESULTS : Endometrial glands in the proliferative and early secretory phase expressed both DCC and netrin - 1 , but glands in the late - secretory phase tended to silence DCC expression .
The development of the corpus luteum ( CL ) , which involves angiogenesis , is essential for the establishment of early pregnancy .
The knockdown of robo4 abrogated the chemotactic response of endothelial cells to serum but enhanced a chemokinetic response to Slit2 , while robo1 knockdown cells do not display chemotactic response to serum or VEGF .
No [ 13C ] glucose utilization was detected in H4 spheroids , but uptake of alanine and accumulation of labeled lactate , glutamate and glutamine indicated oxidation via the tricarboxylic acid ( TCA ) cycle .
Synthesis and degradation of the EGF receptor are regulated , in addition , covalent modification by phosphorylation regulates activity of the receptor protein .
In conclusion , FVIIa binding to TF provided protection against apoptosis induced by growth factor deprivation , primarily through activation of PI3 - kinase / Akt pathway , and to a lesser extent , p44 / 42 MAPK pathway .
Use of exogenous Sonic hedgehog ( Shh ) peptide significantly increased BrdU incorporation in endothelial cells in vitro by a factor of 2 ( P less than 0 . 001 ) .
Polyethylene glycol - superoxide dismutase ( PEG - SOD ) markedly inhibited both the increases in VEGF expression and the proliferative effects of 20 - HETE .
The low apoptosis phenotype is dominant in Runx2 / MYC tumors , indicating that Runx2 confers a potent survival advantage to MYC - expressing tumor cells .
Hypoxia - activated functional HIF - 1 protein binds to hypoxia - responsive elements ( HRE ) in the enhancers of several genes including VEGF , the major player in angiogenesis , and initiates their mRNA expression .
Additional mechanistic studies further suggested that the ability of circulating cancer cells to extravasate to surrounding lung tissues was linked to the activation of the vascular endothelium via one or more Galpha ( i ) - coupled receptors .
Melanoma cells and human fibroblasts adhered to immobilized DC - 9 in a Mn ( 2 + ) - dependent fashion suggesting an integrin - mediated process .
A significant amount of type I HK RNA was also found expressed in cancer cell lines .
Decrease in c - Myc activity enhances cancer cell sensitivity to vinblastine .
Endothelial cell migration was increased by Rab5a depletion but decreased by Rab7a depletion .
Aberrantly activated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 ( Stat3 ) is implicated in the development of various human cancers .
RESULTS : All the primary breast cancers and the lymph node metastases were positive for Glut - 1 .
Transformation by Rous sarcoma virus results in a dramatic increase in the rate at which the transformed cells transport glucose across the cell membrane .
Organic peroxides , widely used in the chemical and pharmaceutical industries , can act as skin tumor promoters and cause epidermal hyperplasia .
We also assessed the effect of C / EBPbeta on COX - 2 expression .
Interestingly , the level of cyclin D3 protein , known as an activator of G ( 1 ) to S phase transition in the cell cycle , was aberrantly high in cells overexpressing PLD1 and PLD2 compared with control cells .
In this study , we sought to investigate in more detail the role of caspase - 3 in apoptotic processes in cultured cells and in cell - free extracts of breast cancer cells .
Similarly , perivascular inflammatory T - cells expressed more antiapoptotic proteins in irreversible PHT ( p less than 0 . 01 ) .
Notably , AglRhz inhibits insulin - like growth factor ( IGF ) - 1 - induced AP - 1 activity and cell transformation in JB6 Cl41 cells .
In this study , we demonstrate that two independent downstream signal pathways , DCN / EGFR / ERK1 / 2 and DCN / EGFR / phosphoinositide - 3 kinase / AKT , mediate up - regulation and activation of transcription factors of VEGF such as HIF1alpha , Stat3 , and Sp1 and increase VEGF transcription and angiogenesis in MCE cells .
Further prospective studies are needed to prove the clinical impact of D2 - 40 .
Conditioned media obtained from distinct tumour types with unique patterns of metastatic spread redirected fibronectin expression and cluster formation , thereby transforming the metastatic profile .
These patients included many who were enrolled in the Epidermolysis Bullosa Registry and others who were referred by their physicians .
After 2 h incubation at 37 degrees C the drop in the ATP level was lower .
We examined whether betulin , a naturally abundant compound , has anticancer functions in human cancer cells .
CONCLUSIONS : Indocyanine green dye - enhanced photocoagulation of CNV feeder vessels , facilitated by use of a device that permits real - time visualization of the choroidal circulation while aiming the treatment laser beam , appears to minimize the amount of energy applied to the fundus and the volume of fundus tissue affected by treatment , compared with other treatment modalities .
However , PC12 cells do not precisely reflect the pathogenesis of malignant cells .
Simian virus 40 large T antigen and two independent T - antigen segments sensitize cells to apoptosis following genotoxic damage .
METHODS : After immunohistochemical staining , light microscope was used for counting macrophages and automated image analysis quantification was used to determine VEGF - C expression , which was reflected by positive index ( PI ) .
Intraperitoneal injections of 2G7 starting 1 d after intraperitoneal inoculation of tumor cells suppressed intraabdominal tumor and lung metastases , whereas the nonneutralizing anti - TGF - beta 12H5 IgG2a had no effect .
p18Ink4c , but not p27Kip1 , collaborates with Men1 to suppress neuroendocrine organ tumors .
Phosphorylation of Thr654 by protein kinase C decreases high affinity EGF binding and EGF - stimulated tyrosine protein kinase activity , providing a mechanism for heterologous regulation of the EGF receptor by tumor promoters and other ligand X receptor complexes .
These results support the clinical findings and indicate that modulation of PAI - 1 activity may be of therapeutic benefit for the treatment of cancer .
VEGF mRNA expression was also observed in Ve - and OMP - stimulated HGF .
Using a murine incisional wound healing model this study was carried out to investigate the roles of estrogen and progesterone on macrophage activation during the wound healing response .
The authors concluded that , as also in the study of Northern blotting , the expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA significantly correlated inversely with lymph node metastasis in CBM , while the expression of nm23 - H2 mRNA not .
The rapid down - regulation of Tie1 by shear stress changes and its rapid binding to Tie2 may be required for destabilization of endothelial cells in order to initiate the process of vascular restructuring .
The p53 - dependent and p - 53 - independent functions of this protein are under many studies .
In contrast , expression of kinase - dead PIM - 2 mutant ( PIM - 2KD ) led to a rapid decline of survival in Ba / F3 cells transformed by FLT3 - ITD but not by other oncogenic PTKs tested .
TUNEL assay and microvessel density was assessed to evaluate apoptosis and angiogenesis .
Angiogenesis is a critical process in solid tumor growth and metastasis .
When the patients were divided into two groups according to their alpha - SMA expression using a cutoff point at the mean value of 8 . 48 % , the high alpha - SMA group had a significantly poorer overall survival rate ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
Conversely , tumor cell expression of NCAM in a fibrosarcoma model ( T241 ) improved pericyte recruitment and increased perivascular deposition of ECM molecules .
METHODS : Tissues samples were taken from 60 patients with esophageal SCC after surgery .
RESULTS : Both wild - type and mutant PTEN can upregulate the expression of PTEN gene dramatically ; however , it is wild - type PTEN not phosphatase - inactive PTEN that can induce apoptosis and decrease cell migration , invasion and proliferation in ovarian cancer cells .
The dominant negative mutant of Rac1 completely inhibited ephrin - B1 - induced membrane ruffling and focal complex assembly .
Metastasis and tumor angiogenesis are invasive phenomena and share many common properties at the physiological level and some similarities at the molecular level .
Another interesting cell type is the endothelial progenitor cell ( EPC ) , whose numbers increase in the presence of vascular damage .
We postulate that endoscopic observation is valuable in investigating the development of gastric carcinoma , and microvascular structure and lectin binding pattern may be useful to demonstrate the mechanism of growth of gastric carcinoma .
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES : Aquaporins ( AQPs ) play important roles in water and glycerol transport .
Associations with cancer risk were estimated using two - sided logistic regression .
A clone of NIH3T3 transformant ( H - 3 ) , obtained by transfecting genomic DNA of a human colon carcinoma cell line , contains human K - ras oncogene and yields metastatic pulmonary nodules after intravenous injection of the cells into nude mice .
Thus , we herein report a novel , efficient method for identifying VEGFR - 2 kinase inhibitors and introduce one , TKI - 31 , that may prove to be a useful new angiogenesis inhibitor .
Cancer cells typically display gene dysfunction and endogenous or exogenous insults resulting in gene dysfunction are often carcinogenic .
Highly sensitive reverse - transcription polymerase chain reaction identifies an induction and overexpression of a type II - like tumor HK RNA in a range of cancer cell lines irrespective of tissue origin .
Survivin expression in breast carcinoma : correlation with apoptosis and prognosis .
Thus , the differential regulation of hTERT and VEGF in p63 - positive breast carcinomas may contribute to the clinically more aggressive behavior of these neoplasms .
With the recent ability to clone capillary endothelial cells and to carry them in long - term culture , it has been possible to further delineate the mechanism of capillary growth .
This suggests that FOXO3a is a potential suppressor of carcinogenic damage in LAC .
The importance of this tumor suppressor in the mechanisms of carcinogenesis is beyond question as the inactivation of ARF suppressor activity leads to the rapid growth of neoplasia .
Two major type IV collagenolytic metalloproteinases exhibiting molecular weights of 64 , 000 and 88 , 000 , respectively , were detected by this method .
Levels of RNA for tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases ( TIMP - 1 , TIMP - 2 ) were relatively constant , suggesting independent regulation of type IV collagenases and their inhibitors .
All of the DR alpha DNA sequences detected by a cloned DR alpha cDNA probe are contained in a BglII fragment which varies slightly in size ( 4 . 0 to 4 . 8 kilobases ) from one individual to another .
There was no correlation of survivin with bcl - 2 or bax expression , or with other prognostic parameters ( age , tumor size , histologic type , histologic grade , nodal status , and tumor stage ) ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
In only 3 out of 13 cases , representing patients with adenocarcinomas of the stomach receiving chemotherapy , was ras p21 detected at elevated levels , whereas in patients with the following types of cancer no substantial change in serum ras p21 was observed ; nine with breast , 5 colon , 5 lung , 5 ovarian and 5 hepatocellular carcinomas .
Autocrine angiogenic vascular prosthesis with bone marrow transplantation .
Epidermal growth factor and its receptor .
Although the importance of VEGF - A has been shown in renal carcinomas , the contribution of these new ligands in kidney tumors is not clear .
Conversely , expression of pAd - T34A caused apoptosis in umbilical vein and dermal microvascular endothelial cells and resulted in caspase - 3 activity .
Furthermore , we have searched for the underlying mechanisms of apoptosis by demonstrating apoptosis - related genes .
Accordingly , the rate of elimination of abnormal proteins was lower in cells lacking a functional VHL gene than in wtVHL - expressing cells .
Solid tumors are frequently necrotic and hypoxic due to poor vascularization .
This observation indicates that VCSA expression at the cell surface is likely to be the result of the interaction between the viral src gene product pp60src with host cell gene ( s ) or gene product ( s ) , rather than the simple expression of this molecule at the cell surface .
Under the conditions used , peroxide - induced conversion of GSH to GSSG could be stoichiometrically reversed by resupplying D - glucose , indicating that no significant lysis or GSSG efflux and / or interchange had taken place .
METHODS : Ninety diabetic patients with chronic total occlusion in at least one major epicardial coronary artery were enrolled in the study .
Invasion of the uterus by first trimester human placental extravillous trophoblast ( EVT ) cells depends on mechanisms shared by malignant cells .
Cell lines were established from tumor and metastases and kept in culture for more than 2 months .
In addition to giving a historical perspective on HTLV - 1 and other retrovirus research , this paper discusses the origin of HTLV - 1 ; the modes of transmission and global epidemiology of HTLV - 1 infection ; the genome of HTLV - 1 and the mechanism of HTLV - 1 - induced leukemogenesis ; the role of HTLV - 1 in other diseases , and recent breakthroughs in ATL therapy .
Normal functionality of exogenous Tsg101 was tested by rescuing the survival of Tsg101 - deficient mammary epithelial cells in conditional knockout mice .
This mutant enhanced the steady - level and transcriptional activity of ER .
Despite an increase in the activation of these signal transducers , the mammary gland of females expressing exogenous Tsg101 developed normally throughout the reproductive cycle .
These may be associated with plant based anti - inflammatory effects , The phytochemistry and pharmacological actions of all Punica granatum components suggest a wide range of clinical applications for the treatment and prevention of cancer , as well as other diseases where chronic inflammation is believed to play an essential etiologic role .
Promoting angiogenesis via delivery of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and other angiogenic factors is both a potential therapy for cardiovascular diseases and a critical aspect for tissue regeneration .
There is only one prior report describing rofecoxib treatment in a single haemophilia patient .
In addition , we also report a high frequency of cryptic chromosomal RUNX1 translocation to a novel recently described gene partner , PRDM16 on chromosome 1p36 , for 3 ( 21 . 4 % ) of 14 investigated patients : 2 myeloid BC CMLs and , for the first time , 1 therapy - related BCR - ABL + ALL .
Thrombospondin is a potent inhibitor of angiogenesis and might therefore be important in controlling tumour growth .
It suggests that TB4 could be a hypoxia responsive regulator to control tumor cell migration in angiogenesis and tumor metastasis .
This collection of reviews at the front - edge of scientific knowledge focuses on host - tumor cell interactions , the disastrous consequences they can produce and approaches the ways to break up these cellular conspiracies , to leave the tumor cells unattended and vulnerable .
Phenolic fraction of tobacco smoke condensate potentiates benzo [ a ] pyerene diol epoxide - induced cell transformation : role of protein kinase C .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and its receptors are key regulators of the process of angiogenesis , which makes them attractive therapeutic targets .
Unlike the majority of somatic cells , in which hTERT and telomerase activity are generally silent , normal lymphocytes show transient physiological hTERT expression and telomerase activity according to their differentiation / activation status .
The elevated fibrinogen level may be associated with invasiveness and lymphatic metastasis .
These RNAs were not detected by Northern ( RNA ) hybridization in productively infected chicken embryo fibroblasts 48 h postinfection ; however , they were apparent 140 h postinfection .
METHODS : Corneas of 105 rabbits were infected with viable yeast cells of C . albicans ( 2 . 5 x 10 ( 5 ) ) .
Conditional deletion of Smad1 and Smad5 in somatic cells of male and female gonads leads to metastatic tumor development in mice .
In our study , MOG was shown to specifically inhibit the growth of human leukemia cell lines and primary acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) blasts via induction of apoptosis , with the evidence of mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss , reactive oxygen species production , caspases activation and nuclear fragmentation .
Many observations in various animal models and humans support that the remodeling of preexisting collateral vessels is the mechanism of collateral artery formation .
The results imply that various different proteins may lead to HCC metastasis together .
VTAs inhibit specific factors required to induce and direct the angiogenic process , with major activity against small tumor masses and at the tumor periphery , encompassing monoclonal antibodies and small molecules inhibitors of the tyrosine kinase domain of the VEGF receptor .
Cyclin - dependent kinase - 2 activity , p107 and cyclin A levels , and retinoblastoma protein phosphorylation are markedly reduced in response to the addition of exogenous SPARC and / or peptides derived from specific domains of SPARC .
3 - Chloromethylthiochromone - 1 , 1 - dioxide was observed to be a potent inhibitor of Ehrlich ascites carcinoma growth and a moderate inhibitor of P - 388 lymphocytic leukemia growth at 10 mg / kg / day .
Dietary conjugated linoleic acid ( CLA ) has been shown previously to inhibit rat mammary carcinogenesis .
Membrane - anchored Cbl suppresses Hck protein - tyrosine kinase mediated cellular transformation .
These observations have led to the idea that factors in the host downmodulate the E - cadherin complex and promote invasion most probably in a transient way .
In contrast , VEGF121 , which does not bind to NRP1 , did not support complex formation .
Both PLD1 - and PLD2 - mediated cell cycle distributions in stable cell lines revealed an increased fraction of cells in the S phase compared with control cells .
The cell death pathway initiated by survivin targeting was mapped with respect to cytochrome c release , changes in mitochondrial transmembrane potential , and apoptosome requirements using mouse embryonic fibroblasts deficient in Apaf - 1 or caspase - 9 .
Emerging metabolic targets in cancer therapy .
Previously , we reported that topical exposure to Cum - OOH caused formation of free radicals and oxidative stress in the skin of vitamin E - deficient mice .
With a p53 - null cell line ( EU - 4 ) , although doxorubicin treatment arrested cells in G ( 2 ) / M , survivin expression was unchanged , and cells underwent only limited apoptosis .
Thus , our results suggest that sustained FOXO3a activation can enhance hyperactivation of the PI3K / Akt pathway .
Angiogenesis is the biologic process of forming new blood vessels .
A key factor in the response of cancer cells to chemotherapeutic drugs is the activation of the apoptotic pathway , a pathway that is often impaired in chemoresistant colon cancer cells .
All of these parameters were reduced by the COX - II inhibitors , suggesting that changes in the vasculature are responsible for the decrease in serum progesterone .
The Wilms tumor suppressor gene WT1 induces G1 arrest and apoptosis in myeloblastic leukemia M1 cells .
Boyden double - membrane analysis of chemotaxis showed that 9E3 / CEF4 was chemotactic for chicken peripheral blood mononuclear cells , as well as for heterophils .
Gastric cancer tissue samples expressed CXCR4 with variable intensities .
The merits of vascular targeting for gynecologic malignancies .
These findings demonstrate that beclin 1 is a haplo - insufficient tumor - suppressor gene and provide genetic evidence that autophagy is a novel mechanism of cell - growth control and tumor suppression .
Syndecans are a family of transmembrane heparan sulfate proteoglycans widely expressed in both developing and adult tissues .
In comparison , by day 24 , the majority of groups also treated with prednisolone displayed significantly less corneal clouding and neovascularization .
The anti - tumour effect of L - NAME after systemic administration was studied in a renal subcapsular CC531 adenocarcinoma model in rats .
The results are consistent with the hypothesis that the activity of COX - II is associated with the formation of functional CL via its stimulation of angiogenesis .
METHODS : One hundred and one specimens obtained from surgery were studied by immunohistochemistry using monoclonal anti - E - cadherin , anti - alpha - catenin and anti - p53 antibodies .
The direct angiogenic activity of CCL16 is further amplified by its ability to prime endothelium to a mitogen signal induced by vascular endothelial growth factor A and to raise their basal production of CXCL8 and CCL2 , 2 other angiogenic chemokines .
Immunohistochemical staining demonstrated VEGF in the tissues surrounding the Matrigel plugs containing AdCMV . VEGF165 up to 3 weeks after injection , whereas no VEGF was found in the control plugs with AdCMV . beta gal .
We found that orally administered artemisinin inhibited lymph node and lung metastasis and prolonged survival without retarding tumor growth .
Furthermore , in cultured ovarian carcinoma cells , Western blot revealed that PPARgamma and COX - 2 expression was regulated conversely as a result of stimulation by 15 - deoxy - Delta ( 12 , 14 ) PGJ ( 2 ) ( 15 - PGJ ( 2 ) ) , a PPARgamma activator .
PMN - triggered angiogenesis is also blocked by both local injection and daily i . p . administration of the Hyp salt in an interleukin - 8 - induced murine model .
There was also a significant correlation between VEGF - C and both of its receptors flt - 4 ( P = 0 . 006 ) and KDR ( P = 0 . 03 ) but no association between VEGF - B and its receptor flt - 1 ( P = 0 . 23 ) .
Together these results indicate that expression of junB above a threshold level is essential for v - fos - induced transformation of Rat - 1 fibroblasts .
During these processes , proteolytic activities of tumor and stromal cells modify the extracellular matrix to produce a microenvironment suitable for their growth and migration .
Cells infected with this mutant display a 36 , 000 - dalton protein that is phosphorylated to a considerably lesser extent than cells infected with wild - type virus .
We used a series of cell clones from a human teratocarcinoma cell line , PA - 1 , to study the effect of transformation by an activated N - ras oncogene on the expression of genes involved in retinoic acid ( RA ) - induced differentiation and growth regulation .
Both cis - 9 , trans - 11 and trans - 10 , cis - 12 CLA isomers were effective in inhibiting angiogenesis in vitro in a dose - dependent fashion .
BACKGROUND : Compound targeting histone deacetylase ( HDAC ) represents a new era in molecular cancer therapeutics .
Pretreatment of cells with caffeine significantly reduces adenosine - induced VEGF promoter activity and VEGF and IL - 8 expression .
Furthermore , this decreased expression was also observed in the other myeloproliferative disorders , polycythemia rubra vera ( PRV ) and essential thrombocythemia ( ET ) .
Consistent with the in vitro data , GSE treatment of tumor - bearing mice led to concomitant reduction of blood vessel density and phosphorylation of mitogen - activated protein kinase .
This limitation may be resolved by in vivo delivery and expression of the antiangiogenic genes .
Our previous studies have shown that the neurotransmitter dopamine could inhibit VEGF - induced phosphorylation of VEGF receptor 2 ( VEGFR - 2 ) , endothelial cell proliferation , migration , microvascular permeability , and thus , angiogenesis .
FOXO3a elicits a pro - apoptotic transcription program and cellular response to human lung carcinogen nicotine - derived nitrosaminoketone ( NNK ) .
Furthermore , treatment of immunocompetent mice in the spontaneous lung metastases model with rAAV2 / 5 - VAS after primary tumor excision prolonged their median survival from 21 to 51 . 5 days .
We tested this using HT - 1080 , NCI , and Shac fibrosarcoma - derived cell lines and anthrax lethal toxin ( LeTx ) , a bacterial toxin that inactivates MKKs .
No significant association between p53 and VEGF expressions and poor prognosis was found .
Tip30 ( - / - ) mammary glands transplanted into wild - type mammary fat pads also display mammary trees with extensive ductal hyperplasia .
Western blotting of p53 and murine double mutant 2 ( Mdm2 ) together with p53 DNA sequencing analysis indicate that p53 function loss by mutation or overexpression of Mdm2 occurred in all tested oral cancer cells regardless of their etiology .
CONCLUSIONS : Intravitreal bevacizumab can be used to treat radiation retinopathy .
Although evidence suggesting a role for FAK in morphogenesis is accumulating , current uncertainties regarding its cytoplasmic location and its molecular interactions in vivo make it difficult to reach definitive conclusions regarding the significance of its contributions to developmental processes .
Rearrangement of the c - myc gene was common in the plasmacytomas , implying a synergistic role for myc and bcl - 2 in their etiology , but was not detected in the lymphomas .
Comet assay revealed a late onset of DNA breaks in the presence of 2 - DG following irradiation only in spheroids , which corroborated well with the late onset of oxidative stress .
A better understanding of the mechanisms of arteriogenesis will be important for the design of more effective strategies for the treatment of patients with ischemic vascular diseases .
Recombinant human prothrombin kringle - 2 inhibits B16F10 melanoma metastasis through inhibition of neovascularization and reduction of matrix metalloproteinase expression .
These data provide evidence that adenosine could modulate the migration of colon cancer cells by an HIF - 1alpha / VEGF / IL - 8 - dependent mechanism and that caffeine has the potential to inhibit colon cancer cell growth .
Separate rats underwent splenocyte and KC harvest for assessment of lymphocyte - and macrophage - mediated tumor cell kill in vitro .
Metastatic lesions were confirmed by immunohistochemistry .
Immunohistochemical analysis of nm23 - H1 gene product in node - positive lung cancer and lymph nodes .
Both models yield significantly reduced placental weights and an asymmetrically growth - restricted fetus , and display altered maternal hormone concentrations , indicative of an impaired trophoblast capacity .
Higher platelet concentrations may expose beneficial effects of PRP .
High - mobility group A2 protein modulates hTERT transcription to promote tumorigenesis .
This technique also revealed the inhibitory effect of the NOS inhibitor N ( G ) - iminoethyl - L - ornithine in VEGF - mediated in vivo angiogenesis .
RESULTS : The expression ofVEGF protein was most pronounced in AP ( ANOVA , p = 0 . 033 ) .
Identification of naturally occurring VEGF inhibitors derived from diet would be one alternative approach with an advantage of known safety .
In vivo assay further showed that GSE could inhibit tumor growth and tumor angiogenesis of MDA - MB - 231 breast cancer cells in mice .
Neurosensorial retinal detachment decreased in 80 % of cases .
HTPB significantly suppresses tumor metastasis partly through inhibition of integrin - beta1 / FAK / MMP / RhoA / F - actin pathways .
Pak1 - DLC1 interaction plays an essential role in cell survival , which depends on Pak1 ' s phosphorylation of DLC1 on Ser88 .
This study was aimed to determine the minimal fragment of PEDF , which maintains antiangiogenic and antitumor efficacy .
The neoplastic transformation of cultured rat liver epithelial cells by various means has consistently been associated with the development of resistance to the mito - inhibitory effect of transforming growth factor beta ( TGF - beta ) , suggesting that such phenotype plays a mechanistic role during the transformation of these cells .
Swift elimination of undesirable cells is an important feature in tumour suppression and immunity .
The E - cadherin / alpha - , beta - , gamma - catenin complex has an invasion - suppressor function as evidenced by transfections either with sense cDNA encoding these molecules or with antisense cDNA inhibiting their expression .
Diacylglycerol ( DG ) plays a central role in phospholipid metabolism and is an endogenous activator of protein kinase C .
Modulation of apoptosis in human myeloid leukemic cells by GM - CSF .
After a 48 - hour incubation period , seven groups of animals were treated for 21 days with fluconazole , with group I acting as a control , and groups II to VII receiving adjunct therapy with the corticosteroid prednisolone ( 5 or 10 times daily ; 3 , 9 , or 15 days after infection ) .
p53 targets involved in cell - cycle arrest and apoptosis showed the same mode of regulation , indicating that , in vivo , both are activated simultaneously .
Autochthonous vessels surrounding other tumors such as renal - cell carcinomas or malignant lymphomas also frequently expressed somatostatin receptors .
However , the function of bFGF in parenchymal cells remains to be determined .
p53 is a protein with many talents .
Down - regulation of collagen XII in transformed mesenchymal cells .
In addition , hypoxia conditioning - induced tumor cell migration was reduced by the infection of lentiviral shRNA of TB4 .
SPARC ( secreted protein , acidic , and rich in cysteine ) is a matrix - associated glycoprotein that modulates the adhesion and proliferation of vascular cells .
Delayed addition of GM - CSF , but not FBS , permitted partial rescue of the cells , inhibiting increasing rates of accumulation of fragmented DNA .
Gross evaluation included shrinkage and stiffness .
[ Correlation between expression of vascular endothelial growth factor - C in tumor - associated macrophages and lymphatic metastasis in oral cancer ] .
Our results show that caffeine significantly inhibits adenosine - induced HIF - 1alpha protein accumulation in cancer cells .
Group 2 animals had the same procedure of DMBA applications but also received alpha tocopherol .
cDNA microarray expression analysis showed that the mouse homologue of Dss1 is induced by TPA .
BACKGROUND : Neuroblastoma is a childhood tumor that often displays unusual biological behavior .
Glucose and lactate metabolism in C6 glioma cells : evidence for the preferential utilization of lactate for cell oxidative metabolism .
These observations support the importance of ER in Ras - mediated cell transformation .
There is a significant increase in the number of apoptotic hepatocytes when they are cultured in the conditioned media .
These results indicate that induction of SAPKs by hypoxia regulates HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression in head and neck carcinoma cell lines .
The interval between primary surgery and the appearance of gastric cancer in the remnant stomach was significantly shorter in the RSCM group than in the RSCB group .
Molecular characterization of angiogenic properties of human oral squamous cell carcinoma cells .
Breast cancer cells lacking final sigma expression showed increased number of chromosomal breaks and gaps when exposed to gamma - irradiation .
Alterations in carbohydrate metabolism in canine lymphoma .
However , E mu - directed coexpression of cyclin D1 and N - MYC or L - MYC in double transgenic mice reveals a strong cooperative effect between MYC and cyclin D1 provoking the rapid development of clonal pre - B and B - cell lymphomas .
By SAGE ( serial analysis of gene expression ) analysis , we identified final sigma as a gene whose expression is 7 - fold lower in breast carcinoma cells than in normal breast epithelium .
A STAT3 - mediated metabolic switch is involved in tumour transformation and STAT3 addiction .
CONCLUSION : Calretinin is a very useful marker for positive identification of normal and tumor mesothelial cells in serous effusions .
Inhibition of this pathway may provide clinical benefits to cancer patients .
Relationship and prognostic significance of SPARC and VEGF protein expression in colon cancer .
In seven diabetic patients with proliferative retinopathy , the most profound finding was a significant decrease of the PEDF level ( mean value : 237 ng / ml ) , whereas VEGF levels were comparable to diabetic patients without proliferation ( mean value : 3153 ; p = 0 . 003 ) .
Reciprocal bone marrow transplants that involved both wild - type and PECAM - 1 - deficient mice revealed that the impaired angiogenic response resulted from a loss of endothelial , but not leukocyte , PECAM - 1 .
Proprotein convertases are serine endoproteases implicated in the proteolytic processing of a large variety of regulatory proteins .
Modulation of angiogenesis and progelatinase a by thrombin receptor mimetics and antagonists .
The COX - 2 protein was not detected in the three borderline tumours , whereas PPARgamma protein was detected in all of them .
We also analysed the association of patients ' prognosis with clinical parameters and the histological classification of the carcinomatous component .
CONCLUSION : A study of both alpha - catenin and p53 expression may be helpful to predict lymph node metastases in early gastric cancer .
Similarly , flow cytometric measurements revealed that leukocyte apoptosis was increased in MTX - treated animals , while L - Car reversed these effects .
Previous work has shown that a rabbit anti - VCSA serum lyses specifically , in the presence of complement , 51Cr - labelled RSV - transformed cells from different animal species .
Coffee is a leading source of methylxanthines , such as caffeine .
These effects of alpha - MSH may have important regulatory functions in extracellular matrix composition , wound healing , or angiogenesis .
2 - Methoxyestradiol ( 2ME2 ) is a natural compound with HIF - 1alpha inhibitory activity that is currently being evaluated in phase 1 and 2 clinical trials for advanced solid tumors and multiple myeloma .
Proliferative diabetic retinopathy is associated with a low level of the natural ocular anti - angiogenic agent pigment epithelium - derived factor ( PEDF ) in aqueous humor .
FM - MSC were obtained from Lewis rats and had surface antigen expression and multipotent potential partly similar to those of BM - MSC .
Furthermore , we investigated the correlation between CXCR4 expression and the clinical features of 221 gastric cancer tissue samples .
The resulting mechanistic model confirms previous work proposing that 2 - BE induces macrophage activation and inflammation in the liver .
We have shown that Arf6 and its effector AMAP1 ( DDEF1 , DEF1 , ASAP1 and centaurin beta4 ) are abnormally overexpressed in some breast cancers and used for their invasion and metastasis .
CONCLUSION : PDT preserves vision in patients with CNV associated with PM .
PTTG overexpression correlated with lymph node metastasis ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Growth inhibition correlated with decreased cellular proliferation and extensive necrosis , and it was accompanied by a decrease in tumor mean vessel density as well as a reduction in serum expression of angioproliferative cytokines .
We also examined islet endotheliuml / oxidative stress ( OS ) / inflammation - related gene expression , islet vascularization and fibrosis after treatment with the interleukin - 1 ( IL - 1 ) receptor antagonist ( IL - 1Ra ) .
Angiopoietin / tie - 2 as mediators of angiogenesis : a role in congestive heart failure ?
After SCC transformation , the absence of G45 domain in DeltaG45 cells was associated with deficient extracellular signal - regulated kinase and phosphotidylinositol 3 - kinase ( PI3K ) pathway activation , impaired invasion , deficient metalloproteinase activity , and absent tumorgenicity in vivo .
To investigate the significance of the C - terminal Abl actin - binding domain within Bcr / Abl p190 in the development of leukemia / lymphoma in vivo , mutant p190 DNA constructs were used to generate transgenic mice .
To maintain an elevated glycolytic rate , cancerous or proliferating cells alter the expression pattern of rate limiting glycolytic enzymes .
A connection between CAM and adipose tissue vessels was evidenced by immunohistochemistry , with recruitment of both avian and human endothelial cells .
It has long been noted , however , that hair follicle cycling is associated with prominent changes in skin perfusion , that the epithelial hair bulbs of anagen follicles display angiogenic properties , and that the follicular dermal papilla can produce angiogenic factors .
Our in vivo metastasis mouse model is useful for studying the efficacy of therapeutic regimes of ovarian cancer .
Role of osteopontin in adhesion , migration , cell survival and bone remodeling .
The UV - irradiated cells demonstrated enhanced tumorigenicity and metastatic potential in nude mice .
Lactate concentrations were significantly higher ( P less than 0 . 001 ) at baseline and all time periods of the glucose tolerance test in dogs with lymphoma when compared with controls .
Recombinant EBV containing LMP1 with TES2 deleted induces a limited proliferation of B cells .
Expression of hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 was localized to immune and granulosa cells of normal ovarian tissue .
The purpose of this study was to immunohistochemically investigate the correlation between the desmoplastic reaction and the clinicopathology of invasive breast cancer .
Using multivariate analysis the S - 100beta level was the most powerful prognostic indicator , while the metastatic profile was found to be significant after exclusion of S - 100beta .
Thrombospondin - 2 plays a protective role in multistep carcinogenesis : a novel host anti - tumor defense mechanism .
Overall , our findings identify AMPK as an important target protein for mediating the anti - tumor properties of AglRhz in HT - 29 colon cancer cells and have important implication for sponges , the most important marine source , in colon cancer .
Forced expression of SEMA3B , but not SEMA3F , inhibited viability of ovarian cancer cells .
We have , therefore , measured the mRNA level of VEGF - B and VEGF - C together with their receptors by RNase protection assay ( RPA ) in 26 normal kidney samples and 45 renal cell cancers .
Samples were assayed for glucose , lactate , and insulin concentrations and compared statistically with ten control dogs of similar weight and age undergoing an identical dextrose challenge .
Chromosomal translocations are found to be a characteristic feature of Burkitt lymphomas .
There was a significant correlation between D2 - 40 + LVI and age , t - stage , nodal status , grading and hormonreceptor - status .
Twenty grafts without bone marrow were implanted as controls .
Angiogenesis plays a critical role in the growth and metastasis of tumors .
OBJECTIVE : In the present study , we attempted to identify EGFR and TGF - alpha expression and Ki - 67 index in carcinoma ex - pleomorphic adenoma ( Ca ex - PA ) and PA .
The aim of this study was to examine immunohistochemical expression of these adhesion molecules , focusing on early gastric carcinomas , and to investigate differences between differentiated and undifferentiated gastric cancer at the early phase of carcinogenesis .
Possible role of cyclooxygenase II in the acquisition of ovarian luteal function in rodents .
SREBP activation decreased as ECs migration slowed ; ( 2 ) Coincidental with SREBP activation , mRNA expression of its target genes such as low density lipoprotein receptor , HMG - CoA reductase , and fatty acid synthase also increased in migrating ECs population as detected by real - time PCR ; ( 3 ) Migration induced SREBP activation in ECs was inhibited by SREBP - acting protein RNAi and pharmacologically by 25 - hydroxycholesterol ; ( 4 ) Inhibition of SREBP led to decreased ECs migration in various models ; ( 5 ) Cells genetically deficient in SREBP - acting protein , S1P , or S2P , phenotypically exhibited impaired migration ; ( 6 ) SREBP inhibition in ECs suppressed the activity of small GTPase Cdc42 , a key molecule for ECs motility .
Invasion is the hallmark of tumor malignancy .
OBJECTIVE : The expansion of adipose tissue is linked to the development of its vasculature .
Deletion of the proline - rich domain of VASP abolishes its ability to bind profilin but does not affect ruffling or stress fiber formation .
These results demonstrate that functional collaboration exists between p18 and Men1 and suggest that Men1 may regulate additional factor ( s ) that interact with p18 and p27 differently .
In the present study , we investigated in vivo the regulation of leukocyte - vessel wall interactions by the presence of a tumor .
PTEN promoter hypermethylation is a major epigenetic silencing mechanism leading to activation of angiogenesis in tumors .
This review provides basic information for the understanding of the biology of NF - kappaB and aims at presenting experimental data illustrating the involvement of NF - kappaB / Rel in pancreatic cancer .
The development of carcinoma was examined in male Wistar rats ( n = 120 ) exposed to N - methyl - N ' - nitro - N - nitrosoguanidine ( MNNG ) in the drinking water ( 83 micrograms / ml ) for 16 weeks .
After tumors developed , mice were treated with angiostatin 20 mg / kg / day or thalidomide 200 mg / kg / day for 30 days .
The present findings may be of importance to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying the spread of cancer via the lymphatics and explore the therapeutical strategy of honokiol on antilymphangiogenesis and antimetastasis .
In patients who received Pancreaticoduodenectomy , Whipple ' s operation , the level of fibrinogen in the group with local invasiveness was significantly higher than in the group without invasiveness .
Thus , p21 coupled p53 - dependent checkpoint control and preservation of chromosomal stability , and cooperated with apoptosis in suppressing tumor onset in mice .
Recent data suggest that activation of the integrin - associated protein CD47 promotes neuronal cell death .
Therefore , the role of VEGF after seizures could be either protective or destructive .
METHODS : The parameters associated with locating and then photocoagulating CNV feeder vessels were identified and optimized using published data and data derived from modeling the choroidal vasculature .
Hypoxia - inducible factor 1 ( HIF - 1 ) activates vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) gene expression in hypoxic / ischemic tissue .
The aim of the present study was to investigate the properties of VEGF expression in human gingival fibroblasts ( HGF ) culture .
This pattern of expression is consistent with a mechanistic involvement of 5T4 molecules in the spread of cancer cells .
RESULTS : In lymphomatous tissue , [ 18F ] FDG uptake rates were similar in overnight fasting and euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp ( 38 + / - 10 versus 41 + / - 9 mumol / 100 g / minute , not significant ) , whereas glucose uptake in skeletal muscle was increased by insulin ( 1 . 7 + / - 0 . 2 versus 3 . 8 + / - 0 . 5 mumol / 100 g / minute , P = 0 . 012 ) .
Thus , tumors behave like wounds that fail to heal .
Syndecan - 1 expression in mammary epithelial tumor cells is E - cadherin - dependent .
With K562 cells Glut - 1 appeared as a broad band of 50 - 60 kDa , whereas with U937 and HL60 cells a diffuse band was observed at approximately 55 kDa .
The tumor cells also display enhanced expression of desmosomal and tight - junction proteins .
To test this we generated Nestin - Bmi - 1 - GFP transgenic mice .
Emerging evidence shows that oncogenes that drive the cancer - promoting signals also drive the altered metabolism .
At the cellular level , the result is hypoxia which impairs wound healing .
A uniform left ventricular injury was produced in female rats using a cryoprobe .
9E3 / CEF4 was slightly mitogenic for CEF , causing a doubling of [ 3H ] thymidine uptake when added to serum - starved CEF . 9E3 / CEF4 was found associated not only with the cell and in the culture medium of Rous sarcoma virus - transformed CEF but also with the extracellular matrix .
Prostate cancer dissemination is difficult to detect in the clinic , and few treatment options exist for patients with advanced - stage disease .
Tumor necrosis factor alpha ( TNF - alpha ) , Fas ligand , and Bcl - 2 , are measured with immunohistochemistry .
These studies suggest that Hedgehog signaling regulates melanoma related vascular formation and function .
Excitotoxic damage due to striatal infusion of an NMDA - receptor agonist ( cis - 2 , 4 - methanoglutamate ) was also markedly inhibited ( 71 % ) by injection of the IL - 1ra .
Although the Bcl - 2 and Bax levels were significantly higher in spheroids , Bcl - 2 / Bax ratio was similar in monolayers and spheroids .
[ Effects of Epstein - Barr virus latent membrane protein 1 ( EBV - LMP1 ) on related factors of metastasis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line CNE1 ] .
In combination with TNF or melphalan , L - NAME increased response rates significantly compared to perfusions without L - NAME ( 0 - 64 % and 0 - 63 % respectively ) .
Relationship of cellular immunity , cytokines and CRP with clinical course in breast cancer patients with endocrine - dependent distant metastases treated with immunotherapy .
A panel of antibodies was used for immunohistochemistry : CD34 / Ki - 67 , carbonic anhydrase IX , hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha ( HIF - 1alpha ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
DNA microarray analysis and small animal PET studies may be used as complementary technologies in drug development .
Bradycardia was induced in rats by administering the bradycardic drug alinidine ( 3 mg / kg body weight ) twice daily .
These TGF - beta - resistant cells also exhibited progressively increasing levels of expression of the c - fos and and myc mRNA , and increased resistance to the cytotoxicity of Adriamycin and melphalan .
KISS1 methylation was associated with low KISS1 transcript expression by quantitative RT - PCR ( P = 0 . 037 ) .
Treatment of K562 cells with tunicamycin for 18 h , resulted in extensive loss of the 50 - 60 kDa glycoprotein , appearance of a 30 - 40 kDa band and increased staining of a 45 kDa band .
Cediranib ( 6 mg / kg / day ) also blocked angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis induced by adenoviruses expressing VEGF - A or VEGF - C and compromised the blood and lymphatic vasculatures of VEGF - C - expressing tumors .
CONCLUSIONS : ITCs circulate even in early stages of disease .
ICAM - 3 enhances the migratory and invasive potential of human non - small cell lung cancer cells by inducing MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 via Akt and CREB .
The presence of bFGF in the extracellular compartment of a diverse variety of organs may play a role in angiogenesis .
CONCLUSIONS / SIGNIFICANCE : Together these data suggest that lymph node metastasis and poor survival in invasive ductal breast carcinoma are linked to an uncoupling of the Akt - FOXO3a signaling axis .
Administration of exogenous polyamines prevented ACA - induced apoptosis represented by a reduction in the number of apoptotic bodies and also caused reduction in the induced caspase - 3 - like protease activity at 8 h .
Their correlation with lymph node metastasis and the predictability of lymph node metastases , by combining these factors , were also discussed .
Exposure to platelets resulted in significantly increased uPA and VEGF content of SKOV3 cell conditioned medium .
In all cases , the somatostatin receptors were localized in veins , particularly in the smooth - muscle cell layer .
Because there is little information on the expression of topo I in colorectal tumors , this study evaluated and characterized topo I protein expression in primary colorectal cancer and lymph node metastases and studied the association between topo I protein expression and clinicopathologic data , p53 status , and proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( PCNA ) status .
The down - regulation of MTSS1 that may be caused by DNA methylation was also observed in many other types of cancer .
RESULTS : In all , 67 vascular abnormalities were found by indocyanine green angiography and only 22 by fluorescein angiography ; this finding was statistically significant ( P less than 0 . 0001 ) .
Importantly , HMGA2 partially replaces the function of hTERT during the tumorigenic transformation of normal human fibroblasts .
Injection of VEGF - neutralizing antibodies over a 2 - week period completely blocked alinidine - stimulated angiogenesis .
We show examples in which p53 gene induction by IFN - alpha / beta contributes to tumour suppression .
In these transformants , mitogen depletion elicited an increase in the Rb level comparable to that in normal C2 cells ; wt SVLT , however , promoted the phosphorylation of a large part of the induced Rb .
The mammalian proto - oncogene Cbl and its cellular homologues in Caenorhabditis elegans ( Sli - 1 ) and Drosophila ( D - Cbl ) are negative regulators of some growth factor receptor signaling pathways .
To determine whether lipofection in other organs could be enhanced by increasing the degree of vascularization , we used a transgenic mouse model with tissue - specific angiogenesis in liver .
To better understand the activity of cediranib against VEGFR - 3 and its associated signaling events compared with its activity against VEGFR - 2 , we used the receptor - specific ligands VEGF - E and VEGF - C156S .
These results suggest that in leukemic cells N - glycosylation of Glut - 1 plays an important role in maintaining its structure and functional integration .
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of doxorubicin in Hct - 116 human colon carcinoma cells in order to clarify if a time / concentration range for optimal doxorubicin - induced apoptosis exists .
The mechanism of TP induction is not yet completely clear , but TNF , IL10 and other cytokines have been clearly shown to induce its expression .
Cytotoxic concentrations of cisplatin , etoposide , doxorubicin or peplomycin ( tentatively termed as Group I compounds ) , but not methotrexate and 5 - FU ( tentatively termed as Group II compounds ) , enhanced the cytotoxic activity of NaF .
[ Retinochoroidopathy after intravitreal anti - VEGF treatment ]
The angiogenic potency of adipose tissue was not related to its localization ( with an angiogenic stimulation in 60 % of SAT samples and 61 % of VAT samples ) or to adipocyte size or inflammatory infiltrate assessed in adipose samples before the graft on CAM .
Interleukin - 8 ( IL - 8 ) is known to be a pro - inflammatory and pro - angiogenic cytokine , and IL - 8 has been reported to be associated with tumor progression , prognosis and survival in several types of cancers .
Thus , we show that deregulation of CDK expression in the primitive oral epithelium plays a unique function , providing a selective advantage that gives rise to transgene - positive TA - like pituitary cells .
We found that the severity of vascular abnormalities correlated positively with the severity of histologic epithelial lesions ; this finding is consistent with colposcopic results .
In damaged and inflamed tissue , LL - 37 functions as a chemoattractant , mitogen and pro - angiogenic factor suggesting that the peptide may potentiate tumor progression .
These findings reveal a previously unrecognized regulatory role for Ang II on sFlt - 1 expression in murine and human pregnancy and suggest that elevated sFlt - 1 levels in preeclampsia may be caused by a dysregulation of the local renin / angiotensin system .
Protruding and expansive ulcerating carcinomas developed at 36 weeks and had a microvascular pattern similar to that of human adenocarcinoma .
However , the expression of nm23 - H1 gene product in the metastatic sites have not been studied in detail .
Nevertheless , for both viruses the leukemic blasts retained full factor dependence for growth .
Our study reveals a hitherto unrecognized link between p53 and IFN - alpha / beta in tumour suppression and antiviral immunity , which may have therapeutic implications .
Sorafenib inhibited the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 and its inhibition led to accumulation of LC3 - II .
Expression of Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 in primary tumors and lymph node metastases in oral squamous cell carcinoma .
Perlecan is a ubiquitous pericellular proteoglycan ideally placed to mediate cell signaling events controlling migration , proliferation , and differentiation .
Autopsy studies have revealed that intimal thickening represents the first stage of atherosclerosis and that lipid - rich plaque arises from such lesions .
Morphogenesis of embryonic CNS vessels .
In the current study , we have shown that loss of function by either targeted allele deletion or use of a soluble form of Dll4 extracellular domain leads to inhibition of Notch signaling , resulting in increased vascular proliferation but defective maturation .
In vivo and in vitro results .
Topoisomerase I protein expression in primary colorectal cancer and lymph node metastases .
We investigated here whether 6 popular antitumor compounds modify the cytotoxic activity of NaF against human squamous cell carcinoma ( HSC - 2 ) and human promyelocytic leukemia ( HL - 60 ) cell lines .
Systematic proteomic analysis of human hepotacellular carcinoma cells reveals molecular pathways and networks involved in metastasis .
The 20 - HETE agonist markedly increased superoxide formation as reflected by an increase in dihydroethidium staining of EC , and this increase was inhibited by PEG - SOD but not by apocynin .
Mechanisms responsible for hyperinvasiveness and resistance to anti - invasive action of TGFbeta .
High expression of VEGF correlated with a shorter overall survival ( log rank , p = 0 . 042 ) .
In the present study , the authors used molecular techniques to analyze the clonal composition of five cases of concurrent adenocarcinomas of the endometrium and ovary that were clinicopathologically diagnosed as synchronous primary tumors .
Semaphorins and their cognate receptors , Plexins and neuropilins , are involved in neuronal pathfinding , immune function , and tumor progression through effects on blood vessel growth and cell migration .
However , treating EU - 6 with anti - survivin antisense resensitized these cells to doxorubicin , resulting in apoptosis .
These findings demonstrate that Src can activate STAT signaling pathways and raise the possibility that Stat3 contributes to oncogenesis by Src .
Measurements of respiration , CO2 and lactate production , and changes in the levels of various key metabolites of the glycolytic sequence and tricarboxylic acid cycle were made on five lines of rodent ascites tumor cells ( two strains of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells , Krebs II carcinoma , AS - 30D carcinoma , and L1210 cells ) incubated aerobically in the presence of uniformly labeled D - [ 14C ] glucose .
Glucose deprivation - mediated sensitization to apoptosis was prevented in MCF - 7 cells overexpressing BCL - 2 .
In EC9706 cells , the mechanism of aspirin and nimesulide induced growth inhibition was a consequence of cell cycle arrest at the G ( 0 ) / G ( 1 ) check point .
In spheroids , the glucose consumption ( 2 . 1 p mole / cell / h ) and lactate production ( 3 . 67 p mole / cell / h ) was nearly 2 - 3 fold higher than in monolayer cells ( 0 . 83 and 1 . 43 p mole / cell / h respectively ) .
Here , we evaluated the usefulness of measuring serum and urine IL - 8 levels in patients with NHL .
It has been suggested that the expression of this protein may be of prognostic significance in gastric , colorectal , and bladder carcinomas .
RESULTS : The apoptosis rate of the old donor - derived MSCs group was significantly higher than that of the young donor - derived MSCs group under conditions of ischemia and anoxia ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
Furthermore , Trib1 by itself is a novel myeloid oncogene , enhancing phosphorylation of ERK , resulting in inhibition of apoptosis .
Comparisons of presymposium and postsymposium responses and between the 2 groups of attendees indicated that the pediatric dentistry and endodontic communities agree that formocresol will be replaced as a primary tooth pulpotomy agent , that mineral trioxide is the first choice to take its place , that IPT in primary teeth holds hope as a replacement for pulpotomy , and that IPT is an acceptable pulp therapy technique for cariously involved young permanent teeth .
LVI is associated with axillary lymph node metastases ( ALNM ) and a long - term prognostic factor .
Effects of dietary folate on ulcerative colitis - associated colorectal carcinogenesis in the interleukin 2 - and beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin - deficient mice .
To evaluate the role of VEGF - C in lymph node metastasis , we developed an animal model by using an endometrial cancer cell line , HEC1A .
We demonstrate for the first time that ERK5 signaling not only is involved in EC survival and stress response but also controls migration and morphology of EC .
There is a highly significant correlation between the magnitude of changes in the number of cytochalasin B binding sites and the magnitude of changes in glucose uptake .
The v - Src - transformed MEFs deficient in SWAP - 70 were unable to grow in soft agar while those expressing SWAP70 readily formed colonies , suggesting that SWAP - 70 is required for anchorage independent growth of v - Src transformed MEFs .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) has recently attracted attention as a potent inducer of vascular permeability and angiogenesis .
Different antiangiogenic therapeutics have been developed to improve tumor control through vascular - targeting agents ( VTA ) .
Univariate and multivariate analyses revealed high PLD as the only independent variable predictive of neck metastasis .
We conclude that anti - angiogenic action of thalidomide is due to direct inhibitory action on VEGF secretion and capillary microvessel formation as well as immunomodulatory influence on EA . hy 926 cells migration and adhesion .
Androgen signaling through androgen receptor ( AR ) is critical for prostate tumorigenesis .
Since EVT cells possess active invasion - associated genes but are nontumorigenic , our objective was to induce premalignant and then malignant phenotype into a normal EVT cell line in order to identify the molecular basis of tumor progression .
To determine whether changes in angiogenesis are responsible for the decrease in progesterone synthesis , we measured hemoglobin and CD34 levels in luteinized ovaries following injection of COX inhibitors and measured the relative frequency of cells positive for platelet - endothelial cell adhesion molecule as a specific marker for endothelial cells .
PTTG induced S100A4 and galectin - 1 mRNA and protein expression as assessed by Western blot and reverse transcription - PCR .
One hTERT transduced BMEC culture underwent a long proliferative lag before resuming proliferation .
On day 41 , rats were killed and tumor nodules were counted .
The intensity of MDM2 staining was not significant .
[ Radiologic - pathologic correlations in breast diseases ]
Contemporary perspectives on vital pulp therapy : views from the endodontists and pediatric dentists .
s - VEGF was also measured before , 4 and 8 weeks after nephrectomy in 11 patients .
Surprisingly , despite the expression of KSHV latent genes in the vast majority of tumor cells , specifically targeting only the few vGPCR - expressing cells in established tumors resulted in tumor regression .
Close surveillance for arterial and venous thrombotic events is recommended .
The EGFR - GEP100 - Arf6 - AMAP1 signaling pathway specific to breast cancer invasion and metastasis .
Mechanistically , it reduced expression of molecular markers of cell proliferation ( Ki67 ) and angiogenesis ( factor VIII ) , antiapoptotic factor Bcl - 2 , cell - cycle progression regulator cyclin D1 , and survival factor AKT1 .
In transgenic embryos , RPE cells proliferated in the anterior part of the eye and near the optic nerve .
METHODS : Grafted animals for corneal survival analysis were assigned to receive either spironolactone suspension ( orally , 100 mg / kg / day , n = 7 ) , phosphate - buffered saline ( PBS , orally , same volume as spironolactone , n = 9 ) or remained untreated ( n = 16 ) .
Persistent high serum levels of endostatin ( 605 - 1740 ng / ml ; mean , 936 ng / ml ) were achieved after systemic administration of the vector to nude mice , which resulted in significant reduction of the growth rates and the volumes of JC breast carcinoma and Lewis lung carcinoma ( P less than 0 . 001 and P less than 0 . 05 , respectively ) .
Baseline and pentagastrin - stimulated calcitonin levels were preoperatively determined in all cases .
Recent studies have revealed important roles for miRNAs in regulating endothelial cell ( EC ) function , especially angiogenesis .
Overexpression of ST3 correlated with the progression of human colorectal tumors toward local invasion and liver metastasis .
Our data suggest that low oxygen upregulates FGFR1 expression in embryonic aorta in vitro and renders it more responsive to FGF2 .
Effect of ROS on angiogenesis in tumors expressing hot - spot p53 mutants was correlated with their ability to increase a content of HIF1 transcriptional factor responsible for up - regulation of VEGF - A mRNAs .
CK1delta mutants exhibited a reduced kinase activity compared to wtCK1delta in in vitro kinase assays .
PURPOSE : To report on bevacizumab treatment for radiation retinopathy affecting the macula .
METHODS : An mIL - 12 expression vector driven by cytomegalovirus promoter was used to express murine IL - 12 cDNA in the RM - 9 murine prostate carcinoma cell line .
TSC2 and PTEN are two key inhibitors of the Akt / mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) pathway and the specific inhibition of mTOR with rapamycin or RAD001 inhibited cell proliferation of PET cell lines .
Following proteolysis , it is thought that the intracellular portion of Notch ( N ( ic ) ) translocates to the nucleus , where it is involved in regulating gene expression .
In contrast , ectopic TSP - 1 expression in SiHa cells has little effect on the invasive ability of the NIH3T3 cells .
This phenomenon occurs at mast cell / tumor ratios which reflect the stoichiometry of host cell / tumor relationships in vivo .
Here , we report a tumorigenic role of TLX in brain tumor initiation and progression .
RESULTS : Our data showed that : tuberous sclerosis 2 ( TSC2 ) and phosphatase and tensin homolog ( PTEN ) were downregulated in most of the primary tumors , and their low expression was significantly associated with shorter disease - free and overall survival ; somatostatin receptor 2 ( SSTR2 ) was absent or very low in insulinomas compared with nonfunctioning tumors ; and expression of fibroblast growth factor 13 ( FGF13 ) gene was significantly associated with the occurrence of liver metastasis and shorter disease - free survival .
Here , in order to characterize the role of the promoter that drives DSCR - 1s expression in mediating inducible expression in vivo and to determine the functional relevance of DSCR - 1s in inflammation , we targeted a DNA construct containing 1 . 7 kb of the human DSCR1s promoter coupled to the lacZ reporter to the hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase ( Hprt ) locus of mice .
Although we cannot reveal any statistical difference between these 2 substances considering osteoinductive potential , PRP group has demonstrated superior results compared with fibrin glue group .
This study was aimed to investigate whether there is selective expression of these cytolytic markers in the putative NK - cell lymphomas and whether there is correlation with zonal tumor cell death in these tumors .
These findings suggest that the anticarcinogenic effects of ACA might be partly due to perturbation of the polyamine metabolic pathway and triggering of caspase - 3 - like activity , which result in apoptosis .
Cotreatment of cell lines with a hormone and its specific antagonist blocked the effect of the hormone .
Neurotrophin p75 receptor ( p75NTR ) promotes endothelial cell apoptosis and inhibits angiogenesis : implications for diabetes - induced impaired neovascularization in ischemic limb muscles .
So we established that these pathways were crucial to endothelial cell proliferation under vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and fibroblast growth factor ( FGF ) stimulation .
Twenty - one patients underwent resection of the remnant stomach for RSC and were divided into two groups : the RSCB group consisted of 11 patients who underwent distal gastrectomy for benign disease and the RSCM group consisted of 10 patients who underwent gastrectomy for primary gastric cancer .
We observed a significant up - regulation of VEGF - B ( P = 0 . 002 ) but not VEGF - C ( P = 0 . 3 ) in neoplastic kidney compared with normal tissues .
KISS1 hypermethylation was frequent in bladder cancer cells analyzed by methylation - specific PCR and bisulfite sequencing and was associated with low gene expression , being restored in vitro by demethylating azacytidine .
Mutating tp53 did not rescue the infertility phenotype in brca2 mutant males , suggesting that brca2 plays an essential role in zebrafish spermatogenesis .
In vivo nuclear magnetic resonance analysis of tumor blood flow in linomide - treated animals showed localization of blood vessels almost exclusively to the periphery of the poorly vascularized tumors with a significant reduction of both vascular functionality and vasodilation .
Metastatic subpopulations isolated from independent lymph node - derived lung adenocarcinoma cell lines harbor a hyperactive WNT / TCF pathway .
For the purpose of investigating the relationship between the metastatic potential of the tumor as well as the expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA , and for determing the location of the positive sites in the cells , tumor metastasis suppressor gene nm23 - H1 in human hepatocellular carcinoma ( and the nonneoplastic area surrounding the tumor ) was detected by in situ hybridization using digoxiginin - labeled nm23 - H1 antisense complementary RNA probe .
T140 analogs are peptidic CXCR4 antagonists composed of 14 amino acid residues that were previously developed as anti - HIV agents having inhibitory activity against HIV - entry through its co - receptor , CXCR4 .
Immunohistochemical analysis revealed Fas - positive cells and apoptotic cells preferentially within the proximal colon region , clearly at the site of bovine lactoferrin - mediated tumor inhibition .
The biological significance of this regulation of the two major pathways of energy generation by p53 remains to be seen .
Intramolecular self - phosphorylation of Tyr1173 removes a competitive inhibitory constraint to enhance phosphorylation of substrates .
MMP2 and MMP9 activity were determined by zymographic assay , and MAPK activation by Western blotting analysis .
Hedgehog signaling in the murine melanoma microenvironment .
E1A proteins stimulate DNA synthesis and cell proliferation ; however , they also cause rapid cell death by p53 - dependent and p53 - independent apoptosis .
The stimulation of inositol phosphate generation in control and ras - gene - transformed NIH - 3T3 cells by prostaglandin F2 alpha ( PGF2 alpha ) was investigated .
Photodynamic therapy ( PDT ) is a novel treatment entity that exploits the photophysical properties of various photosensitive chemical entities which , upon light activation , results in targeted photooxidation and subsequent tissue destruction .
The 5T4 antigen is defined by a monoclonal antibody ( MAb ) specific for human trophoblast .
Finally , the inhibition of PAK activation enhances the PSMA / filamin A interaction and , thus , boosts PSMA activity .
Our results showed that curcumin dose - dependently inhibited ( P < 0 . 05 ) the proliferation of MCF - 7 cells .
LVI was correctly identified by D2 - 40 ( D2 - 40 + ) in 70 out of 254 tumors ( 28 % ) as compared to 40 tumors ( 16 % ) by routine HE staining ( HE + ) .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is known to be operative in the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy .
The ectodomains and heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycan chains of syndecans can also act as receptors / co - receptors for some bacterial and viral pathogens , mediating infection .
Pathologic conditions included dystrophia , moderate dysplasia , severe dysplasia , and intraepithelial carcinoma .
Among them , 29 were gradually up - regulated whereas 17 were down - regulated with increasing metastatic potential .
Gene expression data from bone marrow ( BM ) , liver , and spleen of mice exposed to a single dose ( 4 h ) or seven daily doses of 2 - BE were used to develop a mechanistic model of hemangiosarcoma .
p53 does so through the induction of genes leading to growth arrest or apoptosis .
Nonetheless , anti - VEGF therapy has enhanced the arsenal of anticancer therapies and has provided new insights into the biology of malignancy .
Disturbances in expression of apoptosis - associated proteins take part in the development and progression of many human malignancies .
Vessel density ( MVD - microvessel density ) , endothelial cell proliferation fraction ( ECP % ) and tumour cell proliferation fraction ( TCP % ) were assessed .
The activity of type IV collagenase , which enables tumor cells to degrade collagen type IV found in the subendothelial basement membrane , has been correlated with the metastatic potential in several tumor types , including the rat 13762NF mammary adenocarcinoma cell line and its clones .
The special attention is focused on the ambiguity of the neutrophil role in oncogenesis .
The interaction of neoplastic cells with the extracellular matrix is a critical event for the initiation of cancer invasion and metastasis .
Allergic pulmonary inflammation promotes the recruitment of circulating tumor cells to the lung .
Blocking the activation of p44 / 42 mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) by the specific mitogen - induced extracellular kinase ( MEK ) inhibitor , U0126 , impaired modestly the ability of FVIIa to promote cell survival .
Coexpression of the progesterone receptor with mutant K - Ras led to suppression of tumorigenicity and inhibition of the activation of ER .
There was no correlation between the serum and urine concentrations of IL - 8 and clinical variables , the only exception being the international prognostic index ( IPI ) , which showed a marginal correlation with urine IL - 8 / Cr levels ( P = 0 . 07 ) .
Collectively , our data newly demonstrate the antiangiogenic action of p75 ( NTR ) and open new avenues for the therapeutic use of p75 ( NTR ) inhibition to combat diabetes - induced microvascular liabilities .
To confirm the role of lymphangiogenesis in mediating metastasis , the low - metastatic LAPC - 9 tumor cells were engineered to overexpress VEGF - C , and the development of metastases was evaluated .
Thus the results obtained by 31P and 13C MRS correlated with the differentiation state of H4 and H5 spheroids and tumors .
These studies indicate that Shh peptide produced by melanoma cells induces Patched expression in fibroblasts .
These immortally transformed cells ( KMST - 6 ) showed no clonability in soft agar and were not tumorigenic .
However , the development of cervical cancer is a multistep process that cannot be explained simply by infection with specific types of HPV .
Bone marrow - derived mesenchymal stem cells ( BM - MSC ) have been demonstrated to be an attractive therapeutic cell source for tissue regeneration and repair .
Because islet inflammation may originate from endothelial cells , we assessed the expression of selected genes involved in endothelial cell activation in islets from a spontaneous model of type 2 diabetes , the Goto - Kakizaki ( GK ) rat .
Intracerebral grafting of cultured autologous skin fibroblasts into the rat striatum : an assessment of graft size and ultrastructure .
Correlation analysis was performed between blood vessel parameters and the amount of new bone formed during distraction .
We have provided convincing preclinical evidence that HTPB is a potent HDAC targeted inhibitor and is thus a promising candidate for lung cancer chemotherapy .
From mechanisms to therapy and prevention .
[ Role of the tumor suppressor ARF in oncogenesis ]
The systemic increase in bFGF and MMP - 1 might reflect an increased local stimulation of angiogenesis during distraction osteogenesis .
Aglycon of rhizochalin from the Rhizochalina incrustata induces apoptosis via activation of AMP - activated protein kinase in HT - 29 colon cancer cells .
The aim of this study was to compare the incidence of BRCA1 promoter region methylation in tumours in which loss of BRCA1 has been shown to play a role in pathogenesis ( breast and ovarian carcinomas ) with the incidence in tumours in which BRCA1 is unlikely to play a role in pathogenesis .
Since then , important progress has been made with respect to the understanding of the role of the Pten protein in the normal development of the brain as well as in the molecular pathogenesis of human gliomas .
Despite several advances in therapeutic options , the disease remains incurable .
Tumor - specific DNA changes were detected in two additional HCCs , suggesting that the small region of chromosome 17p defined by the flanking cell DNA probe is commonly altered in hepatomas .
No correlations were found between the nm23 - H1 gene product expression in lung cancers and the patients survival .
In addition , expression of c - MYC from a constitutive promoter also abrogated the STAT3 - mediated arrest , and strikingly , cooperated with OSM to promote anchorage - independent growth ( AIG ) , a property associated with malignant transformation .
Cediranib may , therefore , be an effective means of preventing tumor progression , not only by inhibiting VEGFR - 2 activity and angiogenesis , but also by concomitantly inhibiting VEGFR - 3 activity and lymphangiogenesis .
Both STX243 and STX140 were capable of retarding the growth of MDA - MB - 231 xenograft tumours ( 72 and 63 % , respectively ) , whereas no inhibition was observed for animals treated with 2 - MeOE2 .
We also observe that SHP - 2 knockdown impairs the dopamine - regulated inhibition of VEGF - induced phosphorylation of VEGFR - 2 and , subsequently , Src phosphorylation and migration .
Loss of expression was frequent in both EOGC and conventional gastric cancers .
Protection from experimental ocular herpetic keratitis by a heat - killed virus vaccine .
Conversion of these sites to alanine residues greatly reduced transforming activity , and although the mutant 55 - kDa protein was found to interact with p53 at normal levels , it was somewhat defective for suppression of p53 transactivation activity .
Angiogenesis associated with visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissue in severe human obesity .
Multiple myeloma , an incurable plasma cell malignancy , is characterized by altered cellular metabolism and resistance to apoptosis .
Current therapy for glioma is suboptimal .
Histological examination revealed cystic or angiomatoid spaces of various sizes lined by cuboidal , low - columnar , or flattened epithelioid cells with vacuolated cytoplasm and round to oval nuclei .
The neural stem cell fate determinant TLX plays a pivotal role in neurogenesis in the adult brain by maintaining neural stem cells .
A possible explanation for the decrease in the ATP level might be interaction of the amine oxide with the cell membrane .
In this review , we outline the known mechanisms that impair p53 itself and its immediate regulators or target genes during melanomagenesis .
These findings have suggested that diabetes mellitus may have a different action on retinal and coronary circulation .
None of the epithelial cell lines induced foci in a focus formation assay .
Despite considerable efforts in understanding the cellular mechanisms contributing to pancreatic cancer , the prognosis of this malignant disease is still extremely poor .
The lack of expression correlates with a lack of detectable HLA - DR mRNA .
Three patients developed deep vein thromboses and two heavily pretreated patients developed treatment - related acute myelogenous leukemia or myelodysplasia after 3 . 7 and 12 months of therapy .
The nm23 gene is a conspicuous metastasis - suppressor gene .
1B3 binds to PDGFRbeta with high affinity ( 9x10 ( - 11 ) M ) and blocks PDGF - BB from binding to the receptor with an IC ( 50 ) of approximately 1 . 2 nM .
C / EBPbeta and Ki67 , a marker of cell proliferation , were also co - expressed in primary GC .
These include activated macrophages , sensitized lymphocytes , and adipocytes .
Bmi - 1 over - expression therefore has more pronounced effects in culture and does not appear to be sufficient to induce tumorigenesis in vivo .
Mechanical strain induced CBP - mediated acetylation of histones 3 and 4 at the SRF - binding site and within the CCN1 gene coding region .
More apoptotic tumor cells were seen under the transmission electron microscope .
alpha - MSH alone had little effect , whereas coincubation with IL - 1 beta led to marked downregulation of IL - 8 secretion ( at most 288 + / - 152 ng / mL ) when compared to treatment with IL - 1 beta alone ( 919 + / - 157 ng / mL ) .
These results suggest that , in some immortalized and transformed cells , blocking the cellular signal transduction might trigger the induction of apoptosis .
To assess its role on human vascular lung development , we first examined the expression of IGF - I / II and IGF receptor type I ( IGF - IR ) in human embryonic and fetal lung tissues at 4 - 12 wk of gestation .
An earlier study showed that thrombospondin is expressed in benign prostatic hyperplasia ( BPH ) and high - grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia ( PIN ) but is absent in prostate cancer .
IGF - 1 mRNA ( n = 10 / group ) and protein levels ( n = 6 / group ) were higher ( P less than 0 . 05 for all groups ) at 3 , 7 , and 14 days compared with controls .
Although the exact endpoints are unknown , the large 10 - kb species spans the entire ICP4 homolog region .
Among the most potent of the angiogenic factors is vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
The review is focused on the participation of polymorphonuclear granulocytes ( neutrophils ) in development and spreading of a tumor .
There is also an implicit assumption that a mechanistic understanding , although fundamentally reductionist , will nonetheless lead to a more profound teleological understanding of the need for altered metabolism in invasive cancers .
CONCLUSION : Endostatin gene therapy mediated by adenoviral vector efficiently induces expression of endostatin in vivo , and inhibits the growth and metastasis of tumor .
Consistent with these apoptotic effects , our results showed that sunitinib inhibited phosphorylation of Akt and mTOR and was followed by a reduction of S6K1 , which is a well - known target of mTOR .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and Angiopoietin 1 ( Ang1 ) are both potent proangiogenic factors , but , whereas VEGF causes vascular permeability , Ang1 stabilizes blood vessels and protects them from VEGF - induced plasma leakage .
Such repression activity was totally absent with mutant pm490 / 1 / 5A .
Zebrafish Robo4 rescues both Rho GTPase homeostasis and serum reduced chemotaxis in robo4 knockdown cells .
This work provides a demonstration that a combination of bioinformatics and comparative proteomics can help in finding out potential biomarkers associated with HCC metastasis on the level of pathways .
Thalidomide and angiostatin inhibit tumor growth in a murine xenograft model of human cervical cancer .
The recent demonstration that VEGF signaling is modulated by the Notch signaling pathway , however , suggests that inhibiting Notch signaling may enhance regional neovascularization , by altering the responsiveness of local endothelial cells to angiogenic stimuli .
CD40 expression on human lung cancer correlates with metastatic spread .
After removal of fibroblasts by exposure to G - 418 , the tumor cells exhibited increased metastatic ability and human K - ras oncogene mRNA , suggesting an intimate interaction between H - 3 cells and fibroblasts influencing the function of transfected human K - ras oncogene .
Interestingly , the expression of IL - 17A from CD4 T cells in the lamina propria remains unchanged in the absence of IL - 17F .
Host - derived angiopoietin - 2 affects early stages of tumor development and vessel maturation but is dispensable for later stages of tumor growth .
Reduction of TCF activity in these cells attenuates their ability to form brain and bone metastases in mice , independently of effects on tumor growth in the lungs .
Pharmacologic agents have been identified that target these pathways , yet for some agents ( notably thalidomide ) , an understanding of the specific mechanisms of antitumor action has proved elusive .
PURPOSE : Heparin immobilized porous poly ( D , L - lactic - co - glycolic acid ) ( PLGA ) microspheres were prepared for sustained release of basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) to induce angiogenesis .
Retinal microangiopathies overlying pigment epithelial detachment in age - related macular degeneration .
In this study , we address the mechanism by which VEGFR - 2 phosphorylation is regulated by dopamine .
In human gliomas and other cancer cell lines , the accumulation of HIF - 1alpha protein under aerobic conditions requires the metabolism of glucose to pyruvate that prevents the aerobic degradation of HIF - 1alpha protein , activates HIF - 1 DNA binding activity , and enhances the expression of several HIF - 1 - activated genes including erythropoietin , vascular endothelial growth factor , glucose transporter 3 , and aldolase A .
Reduced growth - factor dependent , autonomous cell growth forms a critical defining point at which a normal cell turns into an oncogenic one .
Brn - 3a , a member of the POU gene family ( so - called because of the similarity with the group of transcription factors Pit , Oct , and Unc ) , was found in neuronal cells engaged in the transcription activity of the p1 and p2 promoters of the most powerful antiapoptotic gene , namely , Bcl - 2 .
Counteracting islet endothelial cell inflammation might be one way to ameliorate / prevent beta - cell dysfunction in type 2 diabetes .
Allergen - induced respiratory inflammation facilitates and / or elicits the extravasation of proinflammatory leukocytes by well - understood mechanisms that mediate the movement of multiple cell types .
H4IIEC3 ( H4 ) , a differentiated rat hepatoma line and H5 , its dedifferentiated subclone , were investigated as proliferating spheroids and as implanted subcutaneous tumors in juvenile rats .
The eph gene encodes a putative receptor tyrosine kinase for an as yet unknown ligand .
Only a subset of patients is suitable for laser coagulation .
Molecular factors which implement this triad of events are reviewed , as are several signal transduction components which may regulate them .
Insufficient angiogenesis occurs in diseases such as coronary artery disease , stroke and chronic wounds .
We demonstrate here that a transcript is initiated within the U3 region and that its presence correlates with the trans - activating activity .
In the current article we demonstrate that TnI inhibits both bFGF - stimulated and basal levels of endothelial cell proliferation , and we hypothesize that this inhibition is occurring , at least in part , via an interaction of TnI with the cell - surface bFGF receptor on capillary endothelial cells .
Prostate - specific membrane antigen regulates angiogenesis by modulating integrin signal transduction .
This technique showed strong abdominal neovascularization in wild - type mice , but not eNOS knockout mice , locally injected with VEGF , as well as stimulation of angiogenesis in NO donor - injected mice .
Recent studies revealed that p21WAF1 protects cells from apoptosis by arresting them in G1 and further binds to pro - caspase - 3 , preventing its activation and thus , inhibiting the apoptotic cascade .
Thirty - two genes were selected encoding molecules involved in endothelial cell activation , particularly fibrinolysis , vascular tone , OS , angiogenesis and also inflammation .
Hyperforin ( Hyp ) , a polyphenol - derivative of St .
Nerve growth factor ( NGF ) has been demonstrated to support survival and differentiation of neuroblastoma ( NB ) cells by activation of the TrkA receptor .
The ras - transformed , ATX - secreting subclones had enhanced motility to ATX as chemoattractant , but there was little difference in the motility responses of NIH3T3 cells transfected with atx , an inactive mutant gene , or empty vector .
The direct addition of all - trans - RA to conditioned medium had no effect on secreted collagenase activity .
Augmented lymphangiogenesis was observed within tumors when HEC1A / VEGF - C cells were inoculated .
During lymphomagenesis , induction of persistent telomerase expression and activity may occur before or after telomere shortening , as a consequence of the different mechanisms through which transforming factors / agents may activate telomerase .
Moreover , SMI496 caused cell retraction and cytoskeletal collapse of endothelial cells as well as delayed endothelial cell wound healing .
Hemostatic factors play a crucial role in generating thrombotic plugs at sites of vascular damage ( atherothrombosis ) .
Based on these optimized parameters , a prototype diagnostic / treatment system was designed that captures high - speed indocyanine green ( ICG ) angiogram images and facilitates analysis of the images by enhancing visualization of dye movement through CNV feeder vessels ( FVs ) .
The modulation of platelet and endothelial cell adhesion to vascular graft materials by perlecan .
Sequence analysis of CDC4 / FBXW7 was carried out on gastric carcinoma cell lines and xenografts .
In 11 there was complete wound healing , while in 1 there was partial response , in 1 minimal response , and in 1 a transient response .
In both of the other two cases , the patterns of X - chromosome inactivation clearly demonstrated the presence of independent primary tumors .
Our data show a significant loss of Plexin C1 in metastatic melanoma compared with primary melanoma , suggesting the possibility that the Plexin C1 receptor is a tumor suppressor protein for melanoma .
Activation of Ca2 + entry is known to produce endothelial cell shape change , leading to increased permeability , leukocyte migration , and initiation of angiogenesis in conduit - vessel endothelial cells .
In this study we examined the role of p24 proteins in insulin transport .
During progressive disease no change was observed in the former parameters , concomitant with a significant increase in IL - 10 ( P = 0 . 020 ) and a significant decrease in TGFbeta1 ( P = 0 . 023 ) .
Perfusion and permeability parameters of the implanted tumours were evaluated by using two contrast media ( B22956 / 1 and Gd - DTPA37 - albumin ) to establish response to treatment with two different antiangiogenic drugs ( tamoxifen and SU6668 ) .
Collectively , the experiments define the role of Ang - 2 during tumor angiogenesis and establish a better rationale for combination therapies involving Ang - 2 manipulatory therapies .
In cultured b . END5 cells the tumor necrosis factor alpha - induced up - regulation of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 and vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 was reduced in ECs that were preincubated with basic fibroblast growth factor or vascular endothelial growth factor .
A pair of primers bracketing the XhoI site were designed to synthesize the EBV DNA fragment from nucleotides 169 , 081 - 169 , 577 by using the polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) method .
To study tumor related angiogenesis a vascular window model was used to monitor tumor vascularity .
The enhanced antiangiogenic effect of cRGD - HL was confirmed in Matrigel assay by showing the significant inhibition of bFGF - driven angiogenesis and blood vessel formation .
Utilizing antibody raised against the purified human erythrocyte glucose transporter , we have identified the glucose transporter as a membrane glycoprotein with a monomer Mr of approximately 41 , 000 .
In conclusion , HAH - cortisol represents the prototype of a new class of angiogenesis inhibitors for the treatment of cancer and other angiogenic diseases .
Unlike wounds , however , that turn off VPF production after healing , tumors did not turn off their VPF production and instead continued to make large amounts of VPF , allowing malignant cells to continue to induce new blood vessels and so to grow and spread .
Anti - transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - beta antibodies inhibit breast cancer cell tumorigenicity and increase mouse spleen natural killer cell activity .
TNFalpha is an important inflammation cytokine and is crucial to the development of inflammation - associated cancers .
A standardized surgical procedure incorporated a hybrid stimulation system comprising an implantable mini - stimulator and surface electrodes , with creation of repeatable ischemic wounds .
Enhanced IGF - 1 expression improves smooth muscle cell engraftment after cell transplantation .
Regulation of thrombospondin - 1 by natural and synthetic progestins in human breast cancer cells .
Selective inhibition of PI3K / Akt suppressed the NF - kappaB - induced BMP - 2 promoter activity .
The level of neu expression , as well as the differential expression between P185neu and LAR / PTP1B , directly correlated with tumorigenicity .
After 7 months median visual acuity ( VA ) was 20 / 160 for the irradiated and 20 / 400 for the untreated patients .
After 1 week of treatment , before an increase in capillary length density , VEGF mRNA increased greater than 2 - fold and then declined to control levels after 3 weeks of treatment .
Low glucose potentiated the effect of hypoxia .
In T - cell ALL with t ( 10 ; 14 ) translocation , the HOX 11 gene is deregulated .
Tail vein injection of N - ( 1 - ( 2 , 3 - dioleoyloxy ) propyl ) - N , N , N - trimethylammonium chloride ( DOTAP ) / cholesterol lipoplexes resulted in increased lipoplex entrapment in hypervascularized liver but did not boost luciferase expression , suggesting that lipoplex delivery is not a sufficient condition for efficient organ lipofection .
Five patients are still responding to therapy .
These findings suggest that c - Myc and / or HIF - 1alpha activities are both involved in the regulation of glycolysis in breast cancers .
HAH - cortisol at 10 ( - 4 ) M ( with respect to cortisol ) did not suppress the DNA synthesis of Lewis lung carcinoma cells .
RESULTS : Cell clones expressing elevated levels of p75 showed a high degree of apoptosis even in 10 % serum - supplemented medium .
RESULTS : SPARC expression was mainly in the stromal cells surrounding the colon cancer , and was significant difference in those tissues with the lymph node metastasis and differentiation degree of tumor .
These data suggest that c - FLIP may play a critical role in regulating Fas - mediated apoptosis in prostate cancer cells and that modulation of c - FLIP may enhance Fas signaling based therapies .
L - deoxyribose ( L - dR ) and thymidine phosphorylase inhibitor ( TPI ) can reverse these effects .
Apoptosis was further measured by DNA fragmentation and microscope examination .
