Lymphoma prevalence was minimal in the T lineage but significant , although low ( 3 - 15 % ) , in the B lineage .
Our results suggest that blood flow limits glucose supply to tumor tissue at much higher flow rates than in normal brain which , in turn , is associated with a decrease in tumor glucose utilization .
We also demonstrated that Evi - 1 represses Smad - induced transcriptional activation by recruiting CtBP as a corepressor .
Here we have demonstrated that mechanical strain - dependent induction of the CCN1 gene involves signaling cascades through RhoA - mediated actin remodeling and the p38 stress - activated protein kinase ( SAPK ) .
Thus , SPARC , previously characterized as an inhibitor of platelet - derived growth factor binding to its receptor , also antagonizes smooth muscle cell proliferation mediated by monomeric collagen at the level of cyclin - dependent kinase - 2 activity .
There is also an implicit assumption that a mechanistic understanding , although fundamentally reductionist , will nonetheless lead to a more profound teleological understanding of the need for altered metabolism in invasive cancers .
IL - 17F ablation decreased IL - 1beta and Cox - 2 expression as well as IL - 17 receptor C ( IL - 17RC ) expression , which were increased in tumors from Apc ( Min / + ) mice .
VTAs can be divided into two groups : antiangiogenic agents and vascular - disrupting agents ( VDAs ) .
Invasion assay and migration assay showed that the invasion and migration of CNE1 - GL cell were higher than those of CNE1 cells ( P < 0 . 01 ) .
This metastatic ability was enhanced remarkably after in vivo tumor growth ( subcutaneous tumor formation in nude mice ) accompanied by increased mRNA expression and gene amplification of the human - derived K - ras oncogene , while it declined gradually as the passage number increased in vitro , with corresponding decreases of gene amplification and mRNA expression .
The ACIS index , using a cutoff point defined by the median value , < or = 3 % versus > 3 % , was related to 5 - year DM rates in univariate analyses ( 32 . 6 % vs . 45 . 8 % ; P = 0 . 057 ) and MVA ( P = 0 . 06 ) .
H - ras mutations in human pituitary carcinoma metastases .
The dual function of Id - 1 , inhibition of differentiation , and stimulation of cell proliferation , might be interdependent , as cell differentiation is generally coupled with the exit from the cell cycle .
Endothelial cell expression of c - src was constitutively elevated after stable infection with a retroviral vector containing the c - src coding sequence .
No clinicopathologic factors were significantly correlated with p53 or VEGF expression .
CONCLUSION : Selective inhibition of iNOS by L - NIL inhibits angiogenesis in a hindlimb ischemic rat model .
It was demonstrated that ovarian tumor tissue lysates and ovarian cancer cell lines express hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 .
This cell line is not invasive by nature and secretes moderate amounts of VEGF - C ; intrauterine injection of HEC1A cells into Balb / c nude mice resulted in uterine cancer with lymph node metastasis after 8 weeks .
Furthermore , we demonstrate that increased vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) - A secretion by tumor cells , as well as activation of VEGF receptor - 2 in bone marrow cells does not alter the mobilization and incorporation of marrow - derived endothelial progenitors into tumor vasculature .
Interleukin - 1 receptor antagonist inhibits ischaemic and excitotoxic neuronal damage in the rat .
RESULTS : Both inhibition of proliferation ( p < 0 . 05 ) and induction of apoptosis ( p < 0 . 05 ) were observed in SKOV3 cells transfected with hPNAS - 4 - p in vitro .
Thus , neither the p53 - binding region nor the Bcl - 2 homology region of T antigen was sufficient to prevent cell death induced by the DNA - damaging agent .
CSC - high cultures and tumors expressed increased levels of the proangiogenic factors vascular endothelial growth factor and stromal - derived factor 1 , and when signaling by either factor was blocked , all aspects of angiogenesis observed in CSC - high cultures and tumors , including microvessel density , perfusion , EPC mobilization / recruitment , and stimulation of endothelial cell activity , were reduced to levels comparable with those observed in CSC - low cultures / tumors .
Here we show that UV - B can induce interleukin 8 ( IL - 8 ) mRNA and protein secretion in human cutaneous melanoma with negligible expression of IL - 8 .
Enhanced expression of PTEN by gene transfer is sufficient to reverse the malignant phenotype of ovarian cancer cells and transfection of ovarian cancer cells with wild - type PTEN gene might be another novel approach for therapeutic intervention in ovarian cancer .
Collectively , these results suggest an important role for furin in PLAG1 - induced salivary gland tumorigenesis in mice .
CONCLUSIONS : Retinal vasculopathies may be observed in eyes with PED and are detectable by indocyanine green and fluorescein angiography .
In addition , our in vivo studies indicated that the lenti - BI - 1 - infected cells formed obvious tumours , while no tumours were formed by the control cells after subcutaneously injected into nude mice .
Binding of factor VIIa ( FVIIa ) to its cellular receptor tissue factor ( TF ) was previously shown to induce various intracellular signaling events , which were thought to be responsible for TF - mediated biologic effects , including angiogenesis , tumor metastasis , and restenosis .
Similar results have been obtained with tumor cell lines and experimental animal models .
Clear cell renal cell carcinoma ( CC - RCC ) is a highly vascularised tumour and is therefore an attractive disease to study angiogenesis and to test novel angiogenesis inhibitors in early clinical development .
Statistical analysis revealed a significantly inverse correlation between AI and IMVD ( r = - 0 . 53 , P less than 0 . 01 ) .
In contrast , the response of cells to long - term treatment with PDBu was significantly different depending upon the initial growth state of the cells .
From one of the revertants , we recovered a 0 . 2 - kb cDNA , N56 , that suppresses the tumor growth of the transformed 3Y1 cells irrespective of the expression of the E6 and E7 genes .
3 - BrPA ( 3 - bromopyruvate ) is an alkylating agent with anti - tumoral activity on hepatocellular carcinoma .
The activity of type IV collagenase , which enables tumor cells to degrade collagen type IV found in the subendothelial basement membrane , has been correlated with the metastatic potential in several tumor types , including the rat 13762NF mammary adenocarcinoma cell line and its clones .
Western blot analysis of involved hematologic tissues of the p190 del C transgenics with end - stage disease showed high - level expression of the transgene and tyrosine phosphorylation of Cbl and Hef1 / Cas , proteins previously shown to be affected by Bcr / Abl .
Tobacco smoke promotes lung tumorigenesis by triggering IKKbeta - and JNK1 - dependent inflammation .
CONCLUSIONS : Irreversible PHT is strongly associated with impaired endothelial cell apoptosis and antiapoptotic signaling from perivascular inflammatory cells .
To elucidate the biological role of the endogenous angiogenesis inhibitor thrombospondin - 2 ( TSP - 2 ) during multistep carcinogenesis , we subjected TSP - 2 - deficient and wild - type mice to a chemical skin carcinogenesis regimen .
p63 - positive carcinomas were poorly differentiated , hormone receptor - negative neoplasms with a high proliferation rate .
An increase of atrophy over the Retinal Pigment Epithelium ( RPE ) was observed in another patient .
The tumor may present with widespread metastases that are unresponsive to aggressive treatment .
The stromal cells in turn produce factors that nurture the tumor .
BACKGROUND : Abdominal surgery can lead to intra - abdominal adhesions with significant morbidity and mortality .
In vivo studies , CT26 cancer cells were implanted into BALB / c mice and groups of mice were treated with vehicle , DATS ( 10 and 50 mg / kg of body weight ) .
Binding studies with SPARC and SPARC peptides indicate specific and saturable interaction with smooth muscle cells that involves the C - terminal Ca2 + - binding region of the protein .
Matrigel plug neovascularization assay revealed that systemic angiogenic activity was elevated after primary tumor removal ( tumor intact group , 1 . 61 + / - 0 . 21 g / dL ; tumor removed group , 4 . 92 + / - 0 . 35 g / dL ) .
Microscopic technique for the detection of nitric oxide - dependent angiogenesis in an animal model .
The nm23 - H1 gene product has been considered as an anti - metastatic protein and the level of its expression has been reported to correlate inversely with metastatic potential in some cancers .
Epithelial keratitis , disciform edema , and necrotizing keratitis with neovascularization of the cornea developed in control animals .
Mutations in colonic adenomas , and the frequent losses on 4q described in gastric cancer prompt speculation about the role of CDC4 / FBXW7 in gastric carcinogenesis .
Four weeks later , islet gene analysis and pancreas immunochemistry were performed .
Furthermore , a significant relationship between the expression of EphA2 and E - cadherin was observed .
Rat - 1 cells which had been transformed with the activated Ha - ras - 1 gene from human EJ bladder carcinoma cells were fused with diploid embryonic rat fibroblasts .
Our previous in vitro studies in a rat model indicated that insulin - like growth factor - I ( IGF - I ) is a potent angiogenic agent for fetal lung endothelial cells .
CONCLUSIONS : Angiostatin and thalidomide inhibit tumor growth , angiogenesis , and induce apoptosis in this xenograft model of cervical cancer .
Importantly , we show that mouse p10 is able to induce cell cycle arrest in a p53 - dependent manner .
We consider both the well known functions of neutrophils ( degranulation , production of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) ) and the recently shown one ( presentation of an antigene ) .
A remarkable delay of tumor growth and prolonged life span were also observed .
These results show that CX3CR1 - dependent accumulation of subretinal MCs evokes cardinal features of AMD .
Phospholipase D ( PLD ) has been suggested to play an important role in a variety of cellular functions .
Long - term peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) is limited by morphological changes of the peritoneal membrane .
The IGF - 1 gene was transfected into male SMCs and compared with SMCs transfected with a plasmid vector ( vector control ) and nontransfected SMCs ( cell control ) .
METHODS : Tissues samples were taken from 60 patients with esophageal SCC after surgery .
13C and 1H nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( NMR ) was used to investigate the metabolism of L - lactate and D - glucose in C6 glioma cells .
In humans with AMD , MCs accumulated in the subretinal space at sites of retinal degeneration and choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) .
Antivascular actions of microtubule - binding drugs .
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE : Cerebral cavernous malformations ( CCMs ) are prevalent cerebral vascular lesions involving aberrant angiogenesis .
KISS1 hypermethylation was identified in bladder cancer , providing a potential mechanistic explanation ( epigenetic silencing ) for the observed loss of KISS1 in uroepithelial malignancies .
Four human cervical cancer cell lines were treated for 24 h with various concentration of paclitaxel , and the sensitivity was analysed by an MTT assay .
Expression of CD154 on renal cell carcinomas and effect on cell proliferation , motility and platelet - activating factor synthesis .
To evaluate the concept that localized delivery of angiogenic factors via virus - mediated gene transfer may be useful in the treatment of ischemic disorders , the replication - deficient adenovirus ( Ad ) vector AdCMV . VEGF165 ( where CMV is cytomegalovirus and VEGF is vascular endothelial growth factor ) containing the cDNA for human VEGF165 , a secreted endothelial cell - specific angiogenic growth factor , was constructed .
By using immunohistochemistry , Western blot , and real - time PCR the expression patterns of TSP - 1 , TSP - 2 , CD36 , CD47 , MMP - 2 , and MMP - 9 were investigated in normal rat prostate tissue and five malignant Dunning sublines tissue .
We hypothesized that Erbb2 activation contributes to UV - induced skin tumorigenesis by suppressing cell cycle arrest .
Dll4 is one of the Notch ligands that regulates arterial specification and maturation events .
OBJECTIVE : Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 ( VEGFR2 ) is a receptor tyrosine kinase that regulates vascular physiology .
In this study , we used two inflammatory agents , IL - 1beta and phorbol myristic acetate , to activate PKC isozymes and specific inhibitors of PKCalpha ( Go6976 ) and PKCbeta ( hispidin ) to distinguish how each of these isoform ( s ) controls angiogenesis , wound healing , and permeability .
Prognostic significance of heat shock protein 27 ( HSP27 ) in patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma .
Moreover , about 10 % of v - fos transformed cells transfected with vectors that express antisense junB mRNA acquired a non - transformed phenotype .
The aims of the present study were to compare , in vitro and in vivo , the antiangiogenic and antitumor activities of metronomic irinotecan ( CPT - 11 ) , oxaliplatin ( L - OHP ) and 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) in colorectal cancer and to investigate the metronomic combination of these drugs .
There was no correlation between HSP27 expression and clinical stage , lymph node metastasis and histological grade .
Tumor angiogenesis might contribute to tumor malignant progression by inhibiting spontaneous apoptosis in LSCC .
Collectively , our results provide strong biochemical and genetic evidence of a central role for alpha2beta1 integrin in experimental and developmental angiogenesis .
Here we investigated this possibility by examining the role of FOXO3a in the cellular response to nicotine - derived nitrosaminoketone ( NNK ) , a lung carcinogen implicated as a cause of human LAC .
Prognostic value of p53 protein expression and vascular endothelial growth factor expression in resected squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus .
During embryogenesis , vascular and hemopoietic cells originate from a common precursor , the hemangioblast .
The role of platelet - derived endothelial cell growth factor / thymidine phosphorylase in tumor behavior .
M - CSF signals through the MAPK / ERK pathway via Sp1 to induce VEGF production and induces angiogenesis in vivo .
SAHA downregulated Bcl - XL and upregulated proapoptotic BH3 - only protein Bim , whose expression was further enhanced by E1A in cancer cells .
RESULTS : The control group showed the highest level of corneal clouding and neovascularization .
The aim of this study was to compare the effects of PRP and platelet - poor plasma ( PPP ) on healing of critical - size bone defects . Bilateral full - thickness , critical - size bone defects were created in the parietal bones of 32 rabbits , which had been studied in 4 groups .
Various studies using the mouse , quail / chick , and frog have uncovered a number of signals that guide these complex processes but many gaps still exist in our understanding of the mechanisms by which the embryonic vasculature is built .
In this review , we will discuss the current knowledge of MTSS1 ' s role in cancer metastasis , carcinogenesis , and development .
Chronic wounds are a major secondary complication for many people with impaired mobility .
These results suggest that point mutations in p53 and ras are not associated with pituitary tumorigenesis , however , point mutations of the H - ras gene may be important in the formation and or growth of pituitary metastases .
TS and DPD proteins were overexpressed in primary OSCC compared to that in normal mucosa .
Angiogenesis inhibitors : current strategies and future prospects .
Wnt signaling plays a critical role in regulating stem / progenitor cells in the mammary gland as well as other tissue compartments .
RESULTS : The overall incidence of BRAF mutation ( 89 / 183 , 49 % ) was very similar to other large studies of Caucasian populations .
RESULTS : The OSCC samples had an average h - MVD score of 27 . 7 / mm ( 2 ) .
DAPT delivery from the hydrogels also did not lead to any adverse side effects , in contrast to systemic introduction of DAPT .
RESULTS : U - 995 ( 15 and 30 micrograms / ml ) markedly inhibited HUVEC migration and , at 15 - 50 micrograms / ml produced a dose - dependent decline in [ 3H ] - thymidine incorporation .
PTHrP also influenced expression of the adhesion factor CXCR4 , and coexpression of PTHrP and CXCR4 was crucial for metastatic spread .
Abnormal expression of E - cadherin and beta - catenin may be a molecular marker of submucosal invasion and lymph node metastasis in early gastric cancer .
Expression of G45 or activated PI3K subunit in DeltaG45 cells reversed these abnormalities .
Recent reports suggest that elevated levels of plasminogen activator inhibitor - 1 ( PAI - 1 ) may contribute to tumour progression .
Curcumin inhibits metastatic progression of breast cancer cell through suppression of urokinase - type plasminogen activator by NF - kappa B signaling pathways .
p53 has a central role in skin pigmentation and may impact on melanoma at all stages , however , as it ' s mutation frequency in melanoma is low , it ' s role has been somewhat under - appreciated .
In this review article , many functions of homeobox genes both at the early stem cell level as well as at the later stages of hematopoietic differentiation , and the leukemogenic effect of altered homeobox genes are discussed .
CONTEXT : Nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( NPC ) , common in southern China and North Africa , has a complex etiology involving interplay between viral , environmental , and hereditary factors and is almost constantly associated with the Epstein - Barr virus .
These data also suggest that folate deficiency may inhibit colorectal carcinogenesis in chronic UC .
The concentrations of urine IL - 8 / Cr were significantly higher in patients than in controls ( 48 . 9 + / - 194 . 4 vs . 5 . 2 + / - 13 . 8 pg / mg Cr , P less than 0 . 001 ) .
Adaptor protein Crk is required for ephrin - B1 - induced membrane ruffling and focal complex assembly of human aortic endothelial cells .
The temporal expression ( percentage positivity per 1000 analysed cells ) VEGF proteins over the course of CML were studied using the immunohistochemical technique utilizing relevant monoclonal antibodies .
CONCLUSION : This study identifies specific components of the Robo signaling apparatus that work together to guide directional migration of endothelial cells .
The effect of translocations on the cellular myc gene in Burkitt lymphomas .
Each was legally blind before treatment ( n = 1 ) , experienced little to no subjective improvement ( n = 2 ) , or was poorly compliant ( n = 2 ) .
Promoting angiogenesis via delivery of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and other angiogenic factors is both a potential therapy for cardiovascular diseases and a critical aspect for tissue regeneration .
This work illustrates alternate means to regulate Src - family kinases , and suggests that Cbl may be able to suppress many signaling pathways that are activated in various proliferative syndromes including cancer .
New functions of epidermal growth factor : stimulation of capillary endothelial cell migration and matrix dependent proliferation .
In the present study we examined the possibility that the revertant phenotype resulted from mutations that altered the expression or activities of the c - jun or junB proto - oncogenes .
20 - HETE also increased the phosphorylation of p42 / p44 mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) in EC , whereas an inhibitor of MAPK [ U0126 , 1 , 4 - diamino - 2 , 3 - dicyano - 1 , 4 - bis ( 2 - aminophenylthio ) butadiene ] suppressed the proliferative and the VEGF changes but not the pro - oxidant effects of 20 - HETE .
Furthermore , thrombin increases the secretion of VEGF and enhances the expression and protein synthesis of matrix metalloprotease - 9 and alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) integrin in human prostate cancer PC - 3 cells .
The antivascular permeability mechanisms deployed by Ang1 are still undefined .
Efficacy was demonstrated particularly for chronic synovitis and pain and no serious adverse events occurred .
VEGF - targeted therapy : therapeutic potential and recent advances .
This creates a network of Hedgehog signaling that determines the malignant behavior of the tumor cells .
The latent membrane protein LMP1 of Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) is often present in EBV - associated malignancies including nasopharyngeal carcinoma and Hodgkin ' s lymphoma .
At necropsy , all macroscopic colonic tumors were identified and histologically classified as dysplasia or adenocarcinoma .
A precise identification of LVI would have a strong clinical impact for breast cancer patients .
Single cell transplants showed that a common precursor contributes to both the hemopoietic and endothelial lineages , thus demonstrating the presence of an adult hemangioblast .
Among the sequence variations , there was a change from G to T at nucleotide position 169 , 426 , resulting in the loss of an XhoI site in exon 1 of the LMP gene .
We determined that lacZ was uniformly expressed in the endothelium of transgenic embryos but was markedly downregulated postnatally .
PURPOSE : Antiangiogenic therapy is considered as an effective strategy for controlling the growth and metastasis of tumors .
Ectopic expression of SEMA3B or SEMA3F reduced soft - agar colony formation , adhesion , and cell invasion of ovarian cancer cell cultures .
Left ventricular weight , body weight , and their ratio were not significantly altered by alinidine treatment .
This may reflect a transition in blood concentration of each metabolite resulting from the administration of UFT .
Glucose metabolism and amino acid uptake of the brain tumours correlated significantly ( r = 0 . 71 , P < 0 . 001 ) .
The level of VEGF expression correlated inversely with the degree of splenomegaly ( Pearson , r = - 0 . 400 , p = 0 . 011 ) .
Ki - 67 labeling index ( LI ) was calculated , based on Ki - 67 antigen immunostaining , as a proliferative marker .
Patterns of X - chromosome inactivation , mutations in the K - ras gene , mutations or allelic loss of the p53 gene , or human papillomavirus detection were identical in both endometrial and ovarian lesions in three of the cases suggesting that those three cases represented single primary tumors with metastases .
We have been investigating which coagulation factors simultaneously , or subsequently with platelet aggregation , participate in thrombus formation .
This aggregation process was irreversible and was inversely correlated with the percentage of lung cells that took up lipoplexes and with the efficiency of lipofection .
In groups 1 & 2 , hindlimb ischemia was induced by ligation of femoral artery and they received L - NIL and saline respectively .
p18Ink4c , but not p27Kip1 , collaborates with Men1 to suppress neuroendocrine organ tumors .
The majority had nuclear ( 70 . 1 % ) or nuclear and cytoplasmic staining ( 17 . 3 % ) .
It is a safe mode of therapy , but further studies are required to establish its efficacy and to ascertain which diabetic patients and wounds will benefit the most from it .
Anti - metastasis effects of gallic acid on gastric cancer cells involves inhibition of NF - kappaB activity and downregulation of PI3K / AKT / small GTPase signals .
Finally , annexin II down - regulation was positively associated with lymph node metastasis , suggesting that it may be a prognostic factor in NPC .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is known to be operative in the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy .
Indeed , these agents are known to activate different pathways of apoptosis .
Although several methods have been used for measuring in vitro angiogenesis , a proper technique has not been developed for identifying in vivo NO - dependent angiogenesis .
These showed cleavage of caspases 9 , 8 , and 3 .
We investigated a prophylactically thyroidectomized MEN II A population to determine whether the highly specific and sensitive tumor marker calcitonin correlates with tumor spread .
CONCLUSIONS : Thus , expression of the TrkA receptor itself inhibits p75 mediated apoptosis in NB cells .
We quantified CYR61 , CTGF , WISP - 1 , and NOV mRNA expression levels in samples from sixty - six primary gliomas and five normal brain samples using quantitative real - time PCR assay .
Angiogenesis has an essential role in promoting and supporting tumor growth and it is an important therapeutic target .
The binding activity of NF - kappaB to DNA was examined in nuclear extracts using Trans - AM NF - kappaB ELISA kit .
Genetic alterations at final sigma such as loss of heterozygosity were rare ( 1 / 20 informative cases ) , and no mutations were detected ( 0 / 34 ) .
Previous studies showed that gammaIFN decreases metastatic hepatic tumor growth by stimulating Kupffer cells ( KC ) .
Several possible explanations for the relationship of these changes to the enhancement of DMBA carcinogenesis include : radiation blocking normal capillary proliferative and / or dilatory responses to inflammation secondary to neoplastic changes ; radiation - induced focal increases in the pericapillary connective tissue histohematic barrier , stimulating angiogenesis but reducing nutrient diffusion ; radiation exposures sensitizing vascular endothelium to subsequent angiogenic stimulation from premalignant tissues ; DMBA vascular and epithelial effects partially or completely blocking radiation effects on epithelial and / or endothelial cells ; and radiation damage to vessel walls partially or fully inhibiting normal physiologic mechanisms of repairing DMBA damage to the vessels .
Thrombin increases the mRNA and protein levels of alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) integrin and serves as a ligand to this receptor .
Reciprocal bone marrow transplants that involved both wild - type and PECAM - 1 - deficient mice revealed that the impaired angiogenic response resulted from a loss of endothelial , but not leukocyte , PECAM - 1 .
However , when the same cells were exposed to step - wise increases of TGF - beta concentration in their culture medium , the development of TGF - beta resistance was accelerated .
Coexpression of PIM - 1KD and PIM - 2KD abrogated growth factor - independent growth of Ba / F3 transformed by several PTKs , including BCR / ABL .
Ba / F3 cells transformed to growth factor independence by various oncogenic PTKs ( TEL / JAK2 , TEL / TRKC , TEL / ABL , BCR / ABL , FLT3 - ITD , and H4 / PDGFbetaR ) show abundant expression of PIM - 1 and PIM - 2 .
Treatment with tunicamycin produced a 40 - 50 % inhibition of 2 - deoxyglucose uptake and this was associated with a 2 - 2 . 5 - fold decrease in transporter affinity for glucose ( Km ) without a change in Vmax .
Increased glucose transporter protein expression may contribute to the increased uptake of 2 - [ 18F ] - fluoro - 2 - deoxy - D - glucose ( FDG ) by these tumors observed by positron emission tomography ( PET ) imaging .
It was correlated with the laboratory ( Hb , WBC and platelet counts , and the percentage of blasts ) and clinical parameters ( organomegaly , duration of CP , AP , and BC ) of disease progression .
VEGF - A ( 165 ) , B , C , Flt - 1 , and KDR were analyzed .
Short pigment epithelial - derived factor - derived peptide inhibits angiogenesis and tumor growth .
Perfusion thresholds were estimated at tumor blood flow values of 69 . 0 + / - 0 . 1 ml / 100 g / min ( estimate + / - standard error ) and of 69 + / - 7 . 1 ml / 100 g / min for the beginning of the decline in regional ATP and glucose content , respectively .
The induction of elevated p53 levels was dependent upon the presence of active virus and was prevented by neutralizing antibody .
Using a construct containing the VEGF promoter linked to a luciferase reporter , we found that a mutation reducing HIF binding to the VEGF promoter had no significant effect on luciferase production induced by M - CSF stimulation .
The Akt / mTOR pathway assures the synthesis of HIF - 1alpha protein in a glucose - and reoxygenation - dependent manner in irradiated tumors .
The proportion of SMCs surviving in the implanted region was greater ( P less than 0 . 05 ) in the IGF - 1 - transfected group than in the vector or cell controls .
Results were compared to findings in a control group .
We conclude that the transforming properties of the activated Ha - ras gene in Rat - 1 cells can be suppressed at the post - translational level by the presence of the genome from diploid embryonic rat fibroblasts but additional controls of expression of the transforming gene are likely to exist .
Treatment with the antiangiogenic reagent TNP - 470 suppressed postoperative progression of pulmonary metastasis .
Our results provide the first evidence of the abilities of the LMP1 gene , acting alone , to effectively induce the proliferation of primary MEF cells and of its cooperativity with another cellular oncogene in transforming primary cells .
Injection of AdCA5 into mouse eyes induced neovascularization in multiple capillary beds , including those not responsive to VEGF alone .
These results suggest a role for HS chains of perlecan in improving graft patency by selectively promoting endothelial cell proliferation while modulating platelet adhesion .
No significant association was also observed between nm23 - H1 gene product expression in lymph nodes and the patients survival .
Analysis of VLB cytotoxicity demonstrated a 3 - fold increase in VLB sensitivity in LoVo - mycANS cells .
This prompted us to examine a hypothesis that insulin - like growth factors may be responsible for overexpression of tumor hexokinase .
We have previously reported that intercellular adhesion molecule - 3 ( ICAM - 3 ) is associated with an increase of cellular radio - resistance and cancer cell proliferation .
Selective inhibition of nuclear factor - kappaB by nuclear factor - kappaB essential modulator - binding domain peptide suppresses the metastasis of highly metastatic oral squamous cell carcinoma .
Although vascular casts must be interpreted with caution in light of the possibility of incomplete filling and other artifacts , they are a valuable tool in the study of ocular vasoproliferation .
[ Inhibitory effect of adenovirus - mediated endostatin gene transfer on transplanted lung carcinoma in mice ]
In conclusion , the present study clearly demonstrates the potential of vector - mediated antiangiogenic gene therapy as a component in cancer therapy .
Additional experiments revealed FT to be effective component of UFT ; uracil remained ineffective in the inhibition of angiogenesis .
Clinical significance of plasma endostatin in acute myeloid leukemia / myelodysplastic syndrome .
The tumor - suppressive action of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS in subcutaneous human lung tumor A549 xenograft correlated with a reduced number of capillary vessels in tumors .
BAG - 1 regulates cellular growth , differentiation and survival through interactions with diverse proteins , including the vitamin D receptor ( VDR ) , a key regulator of keratinocyte growth and differentiation .
The clinical relevance of Brk1 is emphasized by correlative data showing that Von Hippel - Lindau ( VHL ) patients that also lose the BRK1 gene are protected against the development of tumors .
The study population comprised 23 patients with histopathologically proven primary brain tumours ; 14 had high - grade gliomas , and nine low - grade brain neoplasms .
This study aimed to clarify the relationship between the expression of the EphA2 and E - cadherin proteins and clinicopathological characteristics , with reference to the expression levels of both EphA2 and E - cadherin , in patients with colorectal cancer .
Conditioned media obtained from distinct tumour types with unique patterns of metastatic spread redirected fibronectin expression and cluster formation , thereby transforming the metastatic profile .
No CDC4 / FBXW7 mutations were found and loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 did not correlate with ploidy status .
Similarly , the human INK4B locus encodes the p15 ( INK4B ) tumor suppressor and one alternatively spliced form , termed as p10 .
One year after radiotherapy final median VA was 20 / 400 in both groups .
After MNNG administration , rats were investigated by endoscopic observation , visualization of microvascular structure , and estimation of lectin binding sites .
There is comparatively less evidence to support the use of other treatment modalities for relief of symptoms in intermittent claudication , but there is considerable interest in therapeutic angiogenesis to promote new vessel formation and enhance collateralisation of the lower limb using recombinant growth factor proteins or gene transfer strategies .
In this study we separated weakly acidic phenolic components from other neutral , acidic and basic components of tobacco smoke condensate ( TSC ) and observed that phenolic fraction of TSC significantly increased the number of colonies of promotion - sensitive JB6 Cl41 cells that showed anchorage - independent growth on soft agar in response to BPDE ( an ultimate carcinogen produced by metabolic activation of the PAH benzo [ a ] pyrene ) .
Our results suggest that the selective inhibition of NF - kappaB activation by NBD peptide may provide an effective approach for the treatment of highly metastatic OSCC .
In a multivariate analysis D2 - 40 + was the strongest predictor for ALNM with an odds ratio of 3 . 489 and a P - value of P = 0 . 0003 , followed only by T - stage and grading with odds ratios of 3 . 167 and 1 . 953 and P - values P = 0 . 0003 and P = 0 . 0352 .
Cancer cells secrete soluble factors which can induce proliferation and migration of capillary endothelial cells .
In this review , this evidence is surveyed together with evidence from analogous situations , such as tumour cell migration and invasiveness .
Previous work has shown that a rabbit anti - VCSA serum lyses specifically , in the presence of complement , 51Cr - labelled RSV - transformed cells from different animal species .
The process of angiogenesis is also thought to occur in response to ischaemic conditions , which lie at the core of cardiovascular disease states such as coronary artery disease and congestive heart failure .
SMI496 , but not a control compound , interfered with angiogenesis in vivo by reversibly inhibiting sprouting from the axial vessels .
However , recent identification of a high - Km glucose phosphorylating activity in a range of cancer cells prompted us to characterize glucose phosphorylating enzymes of cancer cells at the molecular level .
These data suggest that VEGF plays a key role in the angiogenic response that occurs with chronic bradycardia .
CONCLUSIONS : We have found that patients with RDEB have elevated levels of bFGF , which may contribute to increased fibroblast collagenase and the development of squamous cell carcinoma .
Since the HTR8 line has a limited in vitro lifespan of 12 - 15 passages , SV40 Tag - transformed cells were selected on the basis of extended lifespan .
Angiopoietin / tie - 2 as mediators of angiogenesis : a role in congestive heart failure ?
Phosphorylation of Thr654 by protein kinase C decreases high affinity EGF binding and EGF - stimulated tyrosine protein kinase activity , providing a mechanism for heterologous regulation of the EGF receptor by tumor promoters and other ligand X receptor complexes .
Factors including thrombin and fibrin , which are downstream of the coagulation cascade activated by TF , also contribute to atherosclerosis .
One limitation of these approaches , however , may be the failure to normalize myocardial perfusion , due to the concomitant presence or small of resistance vessel disease .
Mast cells were found to be unique among the peritoneal leukocytes by virtue of their capacity to enhance profoundly the proliferation of a variety of tumors in vitro .
Effect of platelet - rich plasma and fibrin glue on healing of critical - size calvarial bone defects .
Zebrafish Robo4 rescues both Rho GTPase homeostasis and serum reduced chemotaxis in robo4 knockdown cells .
Several such agents are currently in clinical trials , and many others are under development .
Suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid ( SAHA ) has been approved as a drug to treat cutaneous T cell lymphoma , and the combination of HDACi and other agents have been actively tested in many clinical trials .
Experiments with a temperature - sensitive mutant of Rous sarcoma virus demonstrated that a single oncogene product is sufficient to inhibit the synthesis .
The lack of expression correlates with a lack of detectable HLA - DR mRNA .
These results suggest that p24delta1 and possibly other p24 family proteins are required for normal insulin biosynthesis and subsequent secretion in pancreatic beta - cells .
Cancer is no longer considered by scientists just a jumble of mutated cells .
After removal of fibroblasts by exposure to G - 418 , the tumor cells exhibited increased metastatic ability and human K - ras oncogene mRNA , suggesting an intimate interaction between H - 3 cells and fibroblasts influencing the function of transfected human K - ras oncogene .
CONCLUSION : TEMF therapy provided a safe means for retarding tumor vascularization , growth and metastasis .
Furthermore , rat mammary carcinomas with elevated neu expression ( neu - induced ) also had sharply elevated LAR - PTPase expression when compared to rat mammary carcinomas with little or no neu expression ( 7 , 12 - dimethylbenzanthracene induced ) ; the level of expression of LAR PTPase was directly correlated with the level of neu expression .
Upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor receptors is associated with advanced neuroblastoma .
The 3 - D organization of these extracellular components distinguishes the Surgisis mesh from synthetic materials and is associated with constructive tissue remodelling instead of scar tissue .
The role of Hes genes in intestinal development , homeostasis and tumor formation .
We also assessed the effect of C / EBPbeta on COX - 2 expression .
However , the expression level of E - cadherin had an inverse relationship with both differentiation level of the tumor and lymphatic vessel invasion ( p = 0 . 0430 and 0 . 0320 , respectively ) .
There is evidence for the implication of ARF in angiogenesis .
Endothelial cell migration was attenuated by treatment of cells with GM6001 , a non - specific inhibitor of MMPs , or by a selective anti - MMP2 antibody .
HTPB delayed lung metastasis of 4T1 mouse breast cancer cells .
Growth state - dependent regulation of protein kinase C in normal and transformed murine cells .
Because there is little information on the expression of topo I in colorectal tumors , this study evaluated and characterized topo I protein expression in primary colorectal cancer and lymph node metastases and studied the association between topo I protein expression and clinicopathologic data , p53 status , and proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( PCNA ) status .
Twenty grafts without bone marrow were implanted as controls .
Analysis of associations among studied proteins revealed positive correlation between Bcl - xL and Bax in primary tumors ( P < 0 . 03 , r = 0 . 307 ) .
Despite considerable efforts in understanding the cellular mechanisms contributing to pancreatic cancer , the prognosis of this malignant disease is still extremely poor .
CONCLUSIONS : Higher expression of the glucose transporter Glut - 1 by breast cancer cells compared with the healthy breast tissue is common .
After staining samples for alpha - SMA , their expression was extracted and quantified as a relative percentage by computer - assisted image analysis .
Therefore , it is possible that loss of final sigma expression contributes to malignant transformation by impairing the G ( 2 ) cell cycle checkpoint function , thus allowing an accumulation of genetic defects .
Ovarian cancers overexpress the antimicrobial protein hCAP - 18 and its derivative LL - 37 increases ovarian cancer cell proliferation and invasion .
To determine how p18 and p27 genetically interact with Men1 , the tumor suppressor gene mutated in familial MEN1 , we characterized p18 - Men1 and p27 - Men1 double mutant mice .
HKa and D5 reduce the localization of paxillin to the focal adhesions after S1P and VEGF stimulation .
We show that transgenic expression of CDKs in the embryonic oral ectoderm is specifically retained in undifferentiated cells from the pars intermedia of the adenohypophysis .
Regulation of p53 - dependent apoptosis , transcriptional repression , and cell transformation by phosphorylation of the 55 - kilodalton E1B protein of human adenovirus type 5 .
By specifically and potently inhibiting tumor Hsp90 , PU24FCl exhibits wide - ranging anti - cancer activities that occur at similar doses in all tested tumor types .
In 4 weeks after surgery , angiogenesis of test group reached to peak .
Furthermore , the biological activity of FGF - BP is neutralized by monoclonal antibodies suggesting the potential for antibody - based therapeutic targeting .
Targeted antibody - based therapy has been used successfully to treat cancers .
This review article focuses on recent developments in the use of angiogenesis inhibitors for the treatment of breast , lung , and colorectal cancers .
P18 showed the highest IC50 and blocked angiogenesis in vivo : P23 was inactive and P14 was proangiogenic .
It is also clear that diffusible angiogenic stimuli can be released not only from most solid tumors , but also from at least three non - neoplastic cells .
Traditional coronary revascularization therapies such as coronary angioplasty or bypass graft surgery , act by restoring blood flow through the preexisting coronary vessels .
[ Expression of metastasis suppressor gene nm23 in human hepatocellular carcinoma ] .
These findings demonstrate a requirement for VEGFR1 + haematopoietic progenitors in the regulation of metastasis , and suggest that expression patterns of fibronectin and VEGFR1 + VLA - 4 + clusters dictate organ - specific tumour spread .
Differential mechanisms of radiosensitization by 2 - deoxy - D - glucose in the monolayers and multicellular spheroids of a human glioma cell line .
CONCLUSIONS : This study has identified that the MMP / TIMP profile is an independent indicator of poor prognosis in colorectal cancer .
Angiogenesis is a critical process in solid tumor growth and metastasis .
Despite intensive investigations , the target genes of c - myb that are specifically involved in development of these myeloid lineage neoplasms are still unknown .
These data suggest that inhibition of B16F10 melanoma metastasis by rk - 2 was caused by inhibition of neovascularization and reduction of matrix metalloproteinase expression .
The final mean visual acuity in group A ( 55 years of age or younger ) was 20 / 80 and significantly ( P = 0 . 006 ) better than that ( 20 / 138 ) in group B ( older than 55 years of age ) .
Effect of estrogen and progesterone on macrophage activation during wound healing .
Although the exact mechanisms underlying the Warburg effect are unclear , the existing evidence suggests that increased glycolysis plays an important role in support malignant behavior of cancer cells .
Our aim was to compare the angiogenesis associated with subcutaneous adipose tissue ( SAT ) and visceral adipose tissue ( VAT ) from the same obese patients in an in vivo model .
Here we report that infusion of Ang II significantly increases circulating levels of sFlt - 1 in pregnant mice , thereby demonstrating that Ang II is a regulator of sFlt - 1 secretion in vivo .
All data are reported as means + / - SEM .
These results show that magnolol initiates apoptosis via the cytochrome - c / caspase 3 / PARP / AIF and PTEN / Akt / caspase 9 / PARP pathways and necrosis via PARP activation .
Vascular endothelial growth factor - B and vascular endothelial growth factor - C expression in renal cell carcinomas : regulation by the von Hippel - Lindau gene and hypoxia .
Using multivariate analysis the S - 100beta level was the most powerful prognostic indicator , while the metastatic profile was found to be significant after exclusion of S - 100beta .
Betulin , unlike its chemical derivative betulinic acid , did not directly trigger mitochondrial cytochrome c release in isolated mitochondria .
Participation of p53 cellular tumour antigen in transformation of normal embryonic cells .
Analyses of this sort may help to identify the cellular targets of pp60src whose phosphorylation is necessary for the increased glucose transport rate .
These results suggest that the combined action of 3 - BrPA on succinate dehydrogenase and on glycolysis , inhibiting steps downstream of the phosphorylation of glucose , play an important role in HepG2 cell death .
The activity of mitochondrial hexokinase was not inhibited by 150 microM 3 - BrPA , but this concentration caused more than 70 % inhibition of GAPDH ( glyceraldehyde - 3 - phosphate dehydrogenase ) and 3 - phosphoglycerate kinase activities .
Comparison of transformation by manganese sulfate and 5 - azacytidine in Rat 6 cells overexpressing the c - myc oncogene .
This encourages the performance of further studies to analyse the potential impact of 123I - IMT SPET on the therapeutic management of patients with brain tumours .
The absence of functional von Hippel - Lindau ( VHL ) tumor suppressor gene leads to the development of neoplasias characteristic of VHL disease , including renal cell carcinoma ( RCC ) .
These data indicate that endogenous IL - 1 is a mediator of ischaemic and excitotoxic brain damage , and that inhibitors of IL - 1 action may be of therapeutic value in the treatment of acute or chronic neuronal death .
Finally , we discuss future directions for identifying the appropriate patients for therapy , developing reliable markers of efficacy of treatment , and combating resistance to Hedgehog pathway inhibitors .
The characteristics of HPCs in PET described herein for the first time offer additional diagnostic criteria and may help especially to differentiate these tumors from meningiomas .
Thus , the differential regulation of hTERT and VEGF in p63 - positive breast carcinomas may contribute to the clinically more aggressive behavior of these neoplasms .
Augmented lymphangiogenesis was observed within tumors when HEC1A / VEGF - C cells were inoculated .
Recombinant EBV containing LMP1 with TES2 deleted induces a limited proliferation of B cells .
The frequency of ITC in bone marrow was significantly associated with the stage of disease by ANOVA ( P < 0 . 01 ) .
Decrease in c - Myc activity enhances cancer cell sensitivity to vinblastine .
CONCLUSIONS : Young donor - derived MSCs can improve heart function significantly through angiogenesis and decreasing cardiomyocyte apoptosis when transplanted to the infarcted area .
The UFO locus is evolutionarily conserved between vertebrate species .
Thalidomide [ alpha - ( N - phthalimido ) - glutarimide ] is known to be a potent inhibitor of angiogenesis , but the mechanism of its inhibitory action remains unclear .
In vitro assays have indicated that c - myc may be a target gene of c - Myb ; however , regulation of the resident chromosomal gene has not yet been demonstrated .
The transformation of normal melanocytes , or melanocyte stem cells , to melanoma , is a complex process involving multiple mechanisms .
Tip30 is a tumor suppressor that can inhibit estrogen receptor - mediated transcription in MECs , but its role in MEC proliferation remains unknown .
To test this possibility , CD2 / F ( 1 ) mice were placed on synthetic diets containing 0 , 1 , or 2 % CLA for 6 weeks , before angiogenic challenge by s . c . injection with an angiogenic gel substrate ( Matrigel pellet assay ) .
Natl .
This chapter provides a new intravital microscopic method for detecting and measuring NO - dependent angiogenesis in a mouse model .
These results could explain the angiogenic and tumor - promoting effect of thrombin and provide the basis for development of thrombin receptor mimetics or antagonists for therapeutic application .
As reported previously ( Namba et al . , 1985 ; Namba , 1985 ) , normal human fibroblasts were transformed into immortal cells with abnormal karyotypes by Co - 60 gamma - ray irradiation .
OBJECTIVE : The aim of this study was the follow - up of VEGF expression during the course of CML .
VDAs can be divided into biologics , such as ligand - based , and small - molecule agents ; this second group includes small - molecule VDAs like flavonoids , such as 5 , 6 - dimethylxanthenone - 4 - acetic acid ( DMXAA ) , and microtubule - destabilizing agents .
Other anti - angiogenic therapies alter the immune response and endogeneous angiogenesis inhibitor levels .
CONCLUSIONS : P18 is a novel and potent antiangiogenic biotherapeutic agent that has potential to be developed for the treatment of prostate and renal cancer .
Multi - step neoplastic transformation of normal human fibroblasts by Co - 60 gamma rays and Ha - ras oncogenes .
This usually involves screening of potential anti - angiogenic compounds on endothelial cells .
METHODS : NF - kappaB inhibition was achieved by IkappaBalpha super - repressor adenoviral vector and activation was monitored by EMSA and reporter assays .
However , when compared with clinicopathological features , the expression of HSP27 correlated inversely with survival period .
Metastatic spread of malignant tumor appears to correlate with activation of the fibrolytic system .
Furthermore , these results demonstrate that different changes of proinflammatory cytokines , CRP and inhibiting factors are consistent with associated clinical benefit or with disease progression , respectively .
These functions include the first stages of sprouting in angiogenesis , cell migration following wounding , and vascular permeability .
The present study revealed that androgen increases glucose utilization for de novo lipogenesis in LNCaP cells through the activation of HK2 ( hexokinase 2 ) and activation of the cardiac isoform of PFKFB2 ( 6 - phosphofructo - 2 - kinase / fructose - 2 , 6 - bisphosphatase ) .
Tumor Angiogenesis : Initiation and Targeting - Therapeutic Targeting of an FGF - Binding Protein , an Angiogenic Switch Molecule , and Indicator of Early Stages of Gastrointestinal Adenocarcinomas - .
Both basal ( 2 . 3 + / - 0 . 2 mumol / 100 g / minute , P = 0 . 061 ) and insulin - stimulated ( 8 . 5 + / - 1 . 9 mumol / 100 g / minute , P = 0 . 055 ) skeletal arm muscle glucose uptake rates were higher in control subjects than in patients .
Role of thrombogenic factors in the development of atherosclerosis .
Interaction between cellular and viral genes in the expression of the RSV - induced transformation - specific cell - surface antigen VCSA .
There was a significant correlation between E - cadherin and alpha - catenin expression , but no correlation was found between p53 expression and E - cadherin or alpha - catenin expression .
Surprisingly , functional p53 was retained in vivo , even after transplantation , whereas explanted tumor cells displayed rapid allele loss in vitro .
Rhizochalin is a two - headed sphingolipid - like compound isolated from the sponge Rhizochalina incrustata .
Differentially expressed genes were identified , and a subset was evaluated by quantitative real - time PCR and immunohistochemistry .
In this study , to examine hypoxia - specific production of anti - angiogenic therapeutic gene , we constructed 5 copies of HRE ( 5xHRE ) of human VEGF linked to soluble Tie2 ( sTie2 ) driven by minimal SV40 promoter ( 5xHRE / SV40 / sTie2 ) .
RESULTS : Robo1 and Robo4 knockdown cells display distinct activity in endothelial cell migration assay .
Applying cell immunohistochemistry and RT - PCR , we further validated two interesting and different proteins , annexin1 and S100A4 .
Two of them were selected for high or low osteonectin expression and tested in vivo in spontaneous and artificial metastasis assays .
This study was aimed to determine the minimal fragment of PEDF , which maintains antiangiogenic and antitumor efficacy .
We have previously shown that IFI16 is required for proinflammatory gene stimulation by IFN - gamma through the NF - kappaB complex .
RESULTS : The cRGD - HL significantly inhibited adhesion and migration of endothelial cells to vitronectin , and tubular structures of endothelial cells .
These data confirm the importance of tissue architecture and polarity in malignant progression .
Gene expression signatures denoting WNT / TCF activation are associated with relapse to multiple organs in primary lung adenocarcinoma .
Thus , our results provide the first evidence that , in human breast carcinoma cells and in rat mammary carcinomas that have an induced increase in neu expression , a consistent and substantial increase in the expression of specific PTPases occurs .
TTF - 1 immunohistochemistry could focus the search for the primary tumor for patients presenting with brain metastasis as the initial manifestation .
Suppression and re - expression of transformed phenotype in hybrids of HA - ras - 1 - transformed rat - 1 cells and early - passage rat embryonic fibroblasts .
One 9 - year - old boy with bilateral microcarcinoma already had a lymph node metastasis .
Administration of thalidomide at the concentration of 0 . 01 microM increased cell migration , while at 10 microM , it decreased cell migration .
Increasing evidence suggests that EMT plays a specific role in the migration of cells from a primary tumor into the circulation and may provide a rationale for developing more effective cancer therapies .
v - Src morphologically transformed MEFs lacking SWAP - 70 , but growth of the transformed cells in culture was slower than that of cells supplemented with exogenous SWAP - 70 .
Here , we show that the N - acetyltransferase arrest - defect 1 protein ( ARD1 ) functions as a unique AR regulator in PCa cells .
Concomitantly , immunostaining for apoptosis inducing factor ( AIF ) showed a time - dependent translocation from the mitochondria to the nucleus .
Activation of protein kinase C ( PKC ) induces phenotypic changes in the morphology of microvascular endothelial cells that affect major functions of the microvasculature .
Bicistronic retroviral vector reveals capacity of v - erbA to induce erythroleukemia and to co - operate with v - myb .
Two distraction rates ( 0 . 5 and 1 mm / day ) were compared and for each group three patients were analyzed .
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS : Adipose tissue samples from visceral ( VAT ) and subcutaneous ( SAT ) sites , obtained from 36 obese patients ( mean BMI 46 . 5 kg / m ( 2 ) ) during bariatric surgery , were layered on chick chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) .
We investigated here whether 6 popular antitumor compounds modify the cytotoxic activity of NaF against human squamous cell carcinoma ( HSC - 2 ) and human promyelocytic leukemia ( HL - 60 ) cell lines .
Expression of SPARC was significantly correlated with the expression of VEGF and MVD in colon cancer tissues .
Consistent with these findings is the induction under hypoxic conditions of the HIF - 1 protein .
Most of the tumor - suppressive properties of Pten are dependent on its lipid phosphatase activity , which inhibits the phosphatidylinositol - 3 ' - kinase ( PI3K ) / Akt signaling pathway through dephosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol - ( 3 , 4 , 5 ) - triphosphate .
Younger patients and eyes with higher refractive error appear more likely to benefit from PDT with verteporfin .
BACKGROUND : Endostatin , a C - terminal fragment of collagen XVIII , is an endogenous angiogenesis inhibitor .
A vascular permeability enhancement ( VPE ) assay was performed using guinea pigs to ascertain whether supernatant from cultures of Ve - and OMP - stimulated HGF enhance vascular permeability in vivo .
This chapter describes intravital microscopy as a new imaging technique for detecting NO - dependent angiogenesis in an animal model .
No harmful side effects were attributed to TEMF .
p53 up - regulation and p53 - mediated proliferation arrest and apoptosis were substantiated using immunohistochemistry , with activation of both the intrinsic and the extrinsic apoptotic pathways .
The low apoptosis phenotype is dominant in Runx2 / MYC tumors , indicating that Runx2 confers a potent survival advantage to MYC - expressing tumor cells .
Another cell adhesion protein , beta 1 - integrin was not affected by E - cadherin expression .
Multivariate analysis revealed abnormal E - cadherin expression as an independent factor that correlated with submucosal invasion in early gastric cancer .
SREBP activation decreased as ECs migration slowed ; ( 2 ) Coincidental with SREBP activation , mRNA expression of its target genes such as low density lipoprotein receptor , HMG - CoA reductase , and fatty acid synthase also increased in migrating ECs population as detected by real - time PCR ; ( 3 ) Migration induced SREBP activation in ECs was inhibited by SREBP - acting protein RNAi and pharmacologically by 25 - hydroxycholesterol ; ( 4 ) Inhibition of SREBP led to decreased ECs migration in various models ; ( 5 ) Cells genetically deficient in SREBP - acting protein , S1P , or S2P , phenotypically exhibited impaired migration ; ( 6 ) SREBP inhibition in ECs suppressed the activity of small GTPase Cdc42 , a key molecule for ECs motility .
317615 x 2HCl was an active antitumor agent against the MX - 1 xenograft and increased the tumor growth delay produced by paclitaxel by 1 . 7 - fold and the tumor growth delay produced by carboplatin by 3 . 8 - fold .
In the developing retinal vasculature , numerous , long filamentous filopodia , emanating from endothelial cells at the tips of angiogenic sprouts , were observed in wild - type animals , but to a lesser extent in the PECAM - 1 - null mice .
However , it is reasonable to expect that mechanistically complementary combinations of these measures could have a worthwhile impact on survival times and , when used as adjuvants , could improve the cure rates achievable with standard therapies .
In the present study , we evaluated the effects of curcumin on human mammary epithelial carcinoma MCF - 7 cells .
In invasive NM - e - ras - MAC1 cells , where E - cadherin was partially downregulated by specific antisense RNA , syndecan - 1 expression was suppressed .
CCL16 activates an angiogenic program in vascular endothelial cells .
Protein kinase activities in immune complexes of simian virus 40 large T - antigen and transformation - associated cellular p53 protein .
Some responders with congenital neutropenia and Shwachman - Diamond syndrome ( SDS ) have developed myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia ( MDS / AML ) , which raises the question of the role of G - CSF in pathogenesis .
CONCLUSION : These results suggested that cisplatin induced a reduction of endothelial cell migration through an inhibition of MMP2 activity by downstream signal transduction pathways independent of JNK and p38 MAPK activation .
Loss of heterozygosity at the E - Cadherin ( uvo ) locus has been reported , but mutations in the E - cadherin gene seem to be rare .
Early administration of prednisolone ( day 3 , low and high dose ) resulted in the recultivation of significantly more C . albicans .
Possible mechanisms involved in sensitizing cells to a p53 - dependent apoptosis pathway in spite of the ability of T antigen to bind and inactivate the transcriptional transactivating activity of p53 are discussed .
CONCLUSION : A study of both alpha - catenin and p53 expression may be helpful to predict lymph node metastases in early gastric cancer .
The CCAAT / enhancer - binding protein beta ( C / EBPbeta ) transcription factor has been associated with several cancer models .
By transcriptional activation and other means , p53 is able to contribute to the regulation of glycolysis , oxidative phosphorylation , glutaminolysis , insulin sensitivity , nucleotide biosynthesis , mitochondrial integrity , fatty acid oxidation , antioxidant response , autophagy and mTOR signalling .
Onconase similarly inhibited proliferation in all three cell lines ( IC ( 50 ) = 0 . 3 - 1 . 0 microM ) while ( - 4 ) rhEDN was more effective on immortalized HUVEC cell lines ( IC ( 50 ) = 0 . 02 - 0 . 06 microM ) than on primary HUVECs ( IC ( 50 ) > 0 . 1 microM ) .
Although Evi - 1 is thought to promote growth or block differentiation in some cell types , its biological functions have not been elucidated .
Large amounts of cytosolic NADH were oxidized by the mitochondrial respiratory chain via the NADH shuttle , comprising anywhere from about 20 to 80 % of the total flow of reducing equivalents to oxygen in these tumors .
WNT / TCF signaling through LEF1 and HOXB9 mediates lung adenocarcinoma metastasis .
Interestingly , we found that K5CDK4 mice show a decreased number of pituitary stem cells , even though CDK4 is not expressed in the stem cells but in transit - amplifying ( TA ) - like cells .
Chronic inflammation and cancer are intimately associated .
Normal adult vasculature is generally quiescent in nature , with endothelial cells dividing approximately every 10 years .
Differences in polyphosphoinositide metabolism have been reported for ras - transformed cells .
In contrast , VEGF121 , which does not bind to NRP1 , did not support complex formation .
The 5 - year survival rate in cases with higher KISS1 protein expression was significantly higher than in those with low expression ( 20 . 9 vs . 2 . 4 % , p < 0 . 01 ) .
Carcinogenesis and transcriptional regulation through Maf recognition elements .
PURPOSE : The comparative study of differentially expression of protein profiles of hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines with various metastasic potential and screening key molecules related to hepatocellular carcinoma metastasis and recurrence .
Risk of myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia in congenital neutropenias .
Groups 1 and 2 consisted of 48 patients without DR and 42 patients with PDR , respectively .
Low concentrations of SN - 38 , but not 5 - FU and L - OHP , preferentially inhibited endothelial cell proliferation .
Tumors of the retinal pigment epithelium metastasize to inguinal lymph nodes and spleen in tyrosinase - related protein 1 / SV40 T antigen transgenic mice .
RESULTS : The diagnostic sensitivity of this new immunocytochemical approach reached 100 % for the eight malignant mesotheliomas investigated .
These enzymes and their physiologic inhibitors , the tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases ( TIMPs ) , act in a coordinated manner to form an integrated system .
Systemic regulation of distraction osteogenesis : a cascade of biochemical factors .
An N - terminal segment containing the first 127 T - antigen amino acids ( T1 - 127 ) was sufficient to sensitize cells .
Strikingly , 5 of 6 familial CCMs showed PTEN promoter methylation ( 83 . 3 % ) , which was significantly higher than in sporadic cases ( 9 . 4 % ; P < 0 . 001 ) .
The experimental approach includes : estimation of mitochondrial NAD [ P ] + - dependent malic enzyme activity ; respiratory activity of freshly harvested or fasted cells , and of isolated mitochondria ; and determination of the metabolites involved in the glycolytic and glutaminolytic pathways .
Endothelial cell migration is an essential step in vasculogenesis and angiogenesis , in which receptor tyrosine kinases play a pivotal role .
Homeobox genes have a strikingly conserved 61 - amino acid sequence , encoding DNA - binding domain .
The efficacy of the antitumor activity of 1 ' - acetoxychavicol acetate ( ACA ) , reported to be a suppressor of chemically induced carcinogenesis , was evaluated in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells .
It is concluded that the observed increase in the Na + / K + ratio in ascites tumor cells is connected with their enhanced ability to synthesize lactic acid .
The median response duration was 8 . 2 months .
Pak1 associates with the complex of DLC1 and BimL , a proapoptotic BH3 - only protein , and phosphorylates both proteins .
As expected , Ang II - induced sFlt - 1 secretion resulted in the inhibition of endothelial cell migration and in vitro tube formation .
While betulin exhibited only moderate anticancer activity in other human cancer cells such as hepatoma SK - HEP - 1 cells , prostate carcinoma PC - 3 , and lung carcinoma NCI - H460 , with IC ( 50 ) values ranging from 20 to 60 microg / mL , it showed minor growth inhibition in human erythroleukemia K562 cells ( IC ( 50 ) > 100 microg / mL ) .
Alterations in carbohydrate metabolism in canine lymphoma .
TES2 mediates the interaction with tumor necrosis factor receptor - associated death domain protein ( TRADD ) and plays a key role in transactivating NF - kappa B and AP - 1 .
Angioinvasion , in contrast , was present only in a proportion ( 37 % ) of these lymphomas despite the frequent presence of zonal tumor cell death ( 71 % ) .
Prostaglandin E2 production was measured by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay .
Taxol at 10 ( - 6 ) and 10 ( - 7 ) M completely inhibited angiogenesis , while Taxol 10 ( - 8 ) and 10 ( - 9 ) M and the heparin - steroid partially inhibited angiogenesis .
Apoptotic index ( AI ) was calculated , based on the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase - mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate biotin nick end labeling , to evaluate apoptosis .
It has been recognized as the cause of adult T - cell leukemia ( ATL ) .
CONCLUSIONS : These results suggest that the anti - angiogenic effects of U - 995 may be be due to interference with the proliferation and migration of HUVECs as well as inhibition of collagenolysis , thereby leading to inhibition of both angiogenesis and tumor cell growth .
Further investigation using inhibition or genetic deletion of Erbb2 in vitro revealed reduced Cdc25a levels and increased S - phase arrest in UV - irradiated cells lacking Erbb2 activity .
ACA treatment resulted in changes in morphology and a dose - dependent suppression of cell viability .
Robo1 and Robo4 interact and share molecules such as Slit2 , Mena and Vilse , a Cdc42 - GAP .
It is now known that specific types of human papillomaviruses ( HPV ) are the principal etiologic agents for both cervical cancer and its precursors .
Four weeks after cell transplantation , reverse transcriptase - polymerase chain reaction ( RT - PCR ) and immunohistochemistry for vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , VIII - factor immunohistochemistry for vessel density , TUNEL , caspase - 3 for cardiomyocyte apoptosis , echocardiography and hemodynamic detection for heart function were performed .
RESULTS : P14 and P18 blocked endothelial cell chemotaxis ; P18 and P23 induced apoptosis .
In contrast , continuous ( 24h ) treatment with doxorubicin reduced the number of living cells with no parallel raise in the amount of dead cells .
In the manual count analysis , there was no significant relation between MDM2 overexpression and outcome .
Although in vivo studies have shown that such inhibition stems from complex interactions of immune cells and the production of IFN - gamma and other downstream angiostatic chemokines , the mechanisms involved are still poorly defined .
This induction was due to activation of autophagic flux , as there was further increase in LC3 - II expression upon treatment with lysosomal inhibitors , clear decline of the autophagy substrate p62 , and an mRFP - GFP - LC3 fluorescence change in sorafenib - treated hepatoma cells .
METHODS : PTEN promoter methylation was detected in surgical specimens of CCMs ( n = 69 ) by methylation - specific polymerase chain reaction .
STUDY DESIGN : Thirty - three archival cytologic specimens from eight patients with histologically confirmed malignant mesothelioma and 13 from patients with metastatic serous effusions were destained and then immunostained with anticalretinin antiserum .
Moreover , computed tomography ( CT ) showed a complete regression of the extensive lymph node and diffuse lung metastases , for a complete response ( CR ) .
The tumors were also serially transplantable into other mice .
After tumor implantation the animals were examined weekly during several months for the appearance of metastases .
Folate supplementation may reduce the risk of colorectal dysplasia and cancer in subjects with chronic ulcerative colitis ( UC ) .
Levels of pro - angiogenic vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and angiogenic inhibitor pigment epithelium - derived factor ( PEDF ) were determined .
Because the identity of pulmonary endothelial SOCs is unknown , but mammalian homologues of the Drosophila melanogaster transient receptor potential ( trp ) gene have been proposed to form Ca2 + entry channels in nonexcitable cells , we performed RT - PCR using Trp oligonucleotide primers in both rat and human pulmonary arterial endothelial cells .
Ectopic PTTG overexpression in a representative ESCC cell line , EC9706 , increased in vitro cell migration and invasion and promoted in vivo lymph node metastasis .
It has been widely accepted that p53 acts in response to stresses and abnormalities in cell physiology by mobilizing the repair processes or by removing the diseased cells through initiating the cell death programs .
Available data indicate that the timing of telomerase activation may allow the distinction of two different lymphomagenetic models : ( i ) an early activation of telomerase via exogenous regulators of hTERT , along with an increased lymphocyte growth and a subsequent selection of cells with increased transforming potential may characterize several virus - related lymphoid malignancies ; ( ii ) a progressive shortening of telomeres , leading to genetic instability which favors a subsequent activation of telomerase via endogenous regulators may occur in most virus - unrelated lymphoid tumors .
The finding of differential SSTR expression raises the potential for SSTR expression to be evaluated as a marker of response to somatostatin analogs .
Targeting wide - range oncogenic transformation via PU24FCl , a specific inhibitor of tumor Hsp90 .
A 24 - h exposure of cells to all - trans - RA was sufficient to cause a 30 % decrease in the collagenolytic activity , and this inhibitory effect was reversible .
We sought to test whether p53 could behave in a manner similar to known genes in a biological test system , and we demonstrate here that p53 can cooperate with the activated Ha - ras oncogene to transform normal embryonic cells .
beta - catenin signaling controls metastasis in Braf - activated Pten - deficient melanomas .
In contrast , none of the patients with JEB had elevated levels of bFGF .
Effect of ROS on angiogenesis in tumors expressing hot - spot p53 mutants was correlated with their ability to increase a content of HIF1 transcriptional factor responsible for up - regulation of VEGF - A mRNAs .
Adipose tissue layered on CAM stimulated angiogenesis .
The presence of microvascular proliferation leads to the histological diagnosis of glioblastoma multiforme .
METHODS : Thirty - six New Zealand white rabbits were evaluated in this study .
The present study provides direct evidence on the role of cell morphology in EC migration , and will help us to understand the mechanisms of EC migration during angiogenesis and wound healing .
We show that HIF - 1alpha and VEGF are increased through A3 adenosine receptor stimulation , whereas the effects on IL - 8 are mediated via the A2B subtype .
The transformed cells were cloned after in vivo tumorigenic assay , and 4 clones were analyzed for osteonectin expression by Northern blots .
IL - 17F deficiency inhibits small intestinal tumorigenesis in ApcMin / + mice .
METHODS : Sixty - two patients ( 62 eyes ) with PM underwent PDT according to the guidelines of the Verteporfin in Photodynamic Therapy Study .
The biological properties of CCN proteins include stimulation of cell proliferation , migration , and adhesion , as well as angiogenesis and tumorigenesis .
DNA microarray analysis and small animal PET studies may be used as complementary technologies in drug development .
Following an overnight fast , blood samples were obtained from 14 dogs with previously untreated lymphoma before and 5 , 15 , 30 , 45 , 60 , and 90 minutes following an intravenous challenge with 500 mg / kg dextrose .
While many genetic alterations have been identified in melanoma , the relevant molecular events that contribute to disease progression are poorly understood .
In the meantime preventive use of bisphosphonates in patients without any bone metastases should not be used outside the scope of a clinical trial .
Ang1 inhibits the activation of Src by VEGF , the most upstream component of the pathway linking VEGF receptors to VE - cadherin internalization .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : In the present study , we investigated the effects of 2ME2 alone and in combination with paclitaxel , an active agent in recurrent or advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
The most common genetic alterations found in a wide variety of cancers are p53 tumor suppressor gene mutations .
Vascular development is dependent on various growth factors and certain modifiers critical for providing arterial or venous identity , interaction with the surrounding stroma and tissues , hierarchic network formation , and recruitment of pericytes .
Human thyroid tumours represent an example of the interplay of genetic and non genetic carcinogenesis .
The purpose of this study was to determine whether upregulation of PTEN gene by transfection wild - type PTEN gene to ovarian cancer cells can inhibit growth and migration and to explore the potential for PTEN gene therapy of ovarian cancers .
Disease - free ( DFS ) and overall ( OAS ) survival curves were estimated by the Kaplan - Meier method .
In conclusion , the level of nm23 - H1 gene product expression does not significantly reveal prognostic value in node - positive lung cancers .
METHODS : Gene silencing and over - expression techniques were used to modulate RASSF1C expression in human breast cancer cells .
Retinal microangiopathies overlying pigment epithelial detachment in age - related macular degeneration .
Thrombospondins , metallo proteases and thrombospondin receptors messenger RNA and protein expression in different tumour sublines of the Dunning prostate cancer model .
The pathophysiology involves inflammation and angiogenesis .
The COX - 2 protein was not detected in the three borderline tumours , whereas PPARgamma protein was detected in all of them .
Microvessel density ( MVD ) was assessed in order to evaluate angiogenesis of autogenous bone grafts .
METHODS AND RESULTS : Quiescent VEGFR2 displays endosomal localization and colocalization with the Rab5a GTPase , an early endosome fusion regulator .
By interacting with Sp1 , HMGA2 interferes with the recruitment of HDAC2 to the hTERT proximal promoter , enhancing localized histone H3 - K9 acetylation and thereby stimulating hTERT expression and telomerase activity .
The p75 receptor of neurotrophins ( p75 ( NTR ) ) , which is scarcely present in healthy endothelial cells ( ECs ) , becomes strongly expressed by capillary ECs after induction of peripheral ischemia in type - 1 diabetic mice .
In this study , we have examined the ability of the purine analogue 8 - aminoadenosine to acutely reduce glucose consumption by regulating localization and expression of key glucose transporters .
PTTG overexpression correlated with lymph node metastasis ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Blood and vascular disorders underlie a plethora of pathologic conditions and are the single most frequent cause of human disease .
These results highlight the importance of selenoperoxidase action in the glutathione cycle as a means by which tumor cells cope with hydroperoxide stress .
From these data , as well as earlier evidence demonstrating that the reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide ( NADH ) shuttle in these cells requires a transaminase step and is thus identified as the malate - aspartate shuttle ( W . V . V . Greenhouse and A . L . Lehninger , Cancer Res . , 36 : 1392 - 1396 , 1976 ) , metabolic flux diagrams were constructed for the five cell lines .
This was associated with a approximately 60 % reduction in tumor - derived blood vessels by quantitative morphometry of CD31 - stained tumor areas , and appearance of endothelial cell apoptosis by internucleosomal DNA fragmentation in vivo .
The scope of the present review is to discuss from a clinical point of view the potential interactions between VEGF and angiopoietins in the asthmatic airways , and focus on the therapeutic implications targeting for these angiogenic factors .
Expression of the cytolytic effectors perforin , granzyme B9 , and the granule membrane protein TIA1 were examined in 24 putative NK - cell lymphomas , 18 postthymic T - cell lymphomas ( one case CD8 + CD56 + and three anaplastic large cell lymphomas ( ALCL ) , three T - lymphoblastic lymphomas , and 20 B - cell lymphomas .
Clusterin gene expression is potently induced in experimental models in which apoptosis is activated , such as rat prostate involution following castration .
We found that silencing RASSF1C mRNA in breast cancer cell lines ( MDA - MB231 and T47D ) caused a small but significant decrease in cell proliferation .
Treatment with the combination of 1B3 and DC101 in BxPC - 3 xenograft - bearing mice resulted in tumor regression in 58 % of mice compared to that in 18 % of mice treated with DC101 alone .
The bFGF loaded PLGA - heparin microspheres were tested for in vitro release and in vivo angiogenic activity .
Coexpression of vascular endothelial growth factor and p53 protein in squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus .
Such repression activity was totally absent with mutant pm490 / 1 / 5A .
Presence of 2 - DG ( 5 mM ) for 2 - 4 h inhibited the glucose usage and lactate production by 70 % in spheroids , while a 35 % reduction was observed in monolayer cells .
It was found that wild - type ( wt ) SVLT strongly inhibited the terminal differentiation of mouse C2 myoblasts , but this arrest occurred only after the synthesis of myogenin , an initial step in biochemical differentiation .
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES : Even though the pathological background contributes to lymph node metastasis , the biological characteristics of tumors have also gained wide attention .
In CX3CR1 - deficient mice , MCs accumulated subretinally with age and albino background and after laser impact preceding retinal degeneration .
These data provide a morphologic ( angiogenesis and increased endothelial area ) and molecular ( enhanced NOS activity and endothelial NOS upregulation ) basis for explaining the permeability changes observed in long - term PD .
Orthogonal polarization spectral imaging showed no difference in functional capillary density between the scaffolds cultured on chorioallantoic membranes .
p53 and PCNA status do not appear to influence topo I expression , and topo I has no apparent association with the acquisition of a metastatic phenotype .
Angiostatin was first discovered as a plasminogen fragment with antitumor / antiangiogenic property .
The aim of the present study was to investigate the specific role of TF in the esophageal cancer microenvironment .
CONCLUSION : These results demonstrated that cRGD - modified heparin derivative enhanced anti - angiotherapeutic effects against solid tumor , and therefore , it could be applied to treat various cancers and angiogenic diseases as a potent angiogenesis inhibitor .
Such cases may be considered either examples of a single primary carcinoma with metastasis or as synchronous primary neoplasms .
Furthermore , i . p . treatment with Hyp reduces acute PMN recruitment and enhances resolution in a pulmonary bleomycin - induced inflammation model , significantly reducing consequent fibrosis .
Tunicamycin - treatment resulted in 75 - 90 % inhibition in [ 3H ] mannose incorporation but only 20 - 25 % inhibition in [ 3H ] thymidine and [ 3H ] leucine incorporation .
Expression of Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 in primary tumors and lymph node metastases in oral squamous cell carcinoma .
METHODS : An mIL - 12 expression vector driven by cytomegalovirus promoter was used to express murine IL - 12 cDNA in the RM - 9 murine prostate carcinoma cell line .
uPA and uPAR levels were not significantly associated with tumour staging or survival .
Effect of 1 - alkylpyrrolidine N - oxides on energy metabolism of cancer cells .
The genes regulated by Nrf2 are very important for cellular protection of the genome from xenobiotic and oxidative stresses and , consequently , for preventing carcinogenesis .
Therefore , angiogenesis depends on sustained ERK activity regulated by the ligation state of both a growth factor receptor and integrin alphavbeta3 .
These results show that v - erbA is capable of inducing an erythroleukemia when expressed by a high titer bicistronic retrovirus under conditions of virus spreading and that its in vitro and in vivo transforming potential can be enhanced by v - myb .
Here we show that transcription of the p53 gene is induced by IFN - alpha / beta , accompanied by an increase in p53 protein level .
In brain , receptors for VEGF have been localized to vascular endothelium , neurons , and glia .
The review is focused on the participation of polymorphonuclear granulocytes ( neutrophils ) in development and spreading of a tumor .
In vivo studies with athymic nude mice demonstrated that injection of atx - transfected NIH3T3 cells resulted in a weak tumorigenic capacity with few experimental metastases .
T - cell lines established from human T - cell leukemia - lymphoma virus associated T - cell neoplasias , in contrast to the T - cell acute lymphocytic leukemia cell lines , expressed both DR antigens and DR alpha mRNA ; the HpaII sites within the BglII fragment of DR alpha DNA of these human T - cell leukemia - lymphoma virus - positive T - cell lines were in all cases at least partially unmethylated .
Direct intramuscular or intraperitoneal injection of DAPT did not result in the same level of improvement , suggesting that appropriate presentation of DAPT ( gel delivery ) is important for its activity .
Meclofenamate and indomethacin were tested in an attempt to confirm recent reports of anti - edema activity in non steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAID ' s ) .
Ablation of ADAM - 9 in fibroblasts almost completely abolished these cellular interactions and melanoma cell invasion in vitro .
Our results suggest that a key change in the metastatic hybrids , relative to non - metastatic parental LTA cells , is induction of expression of 72 kDa type IV collagenase .
This is the largest study to date evaluating COX - 2 inhibitors as adjunctive therapy in haemophilia and suggests that these agents may be an important adjunctive therapy in the management of haemophilia .
Diabetic foot wounds are consequences of the neuropathy and the small and large vessel disease that complicate diabetes .
The expression of ARD1 was augmented by treatment with synthetic androgen ( R1881 ) unless AR is deficient or is inhibited by AR - specific siRNA or androgen inhibitor bicalutamide ( Casodex ) .
2 - Methoxyestradiol ( 2ME2 ) is a natural compound with HIF - 1alpha inhibitory activity that is currently being evaluated in phase 1 and 2 clinical trials for advanced solid tumors and multiple myeloma .
Based on ChIP analysis , the transcriptional regulation of BMP - 2 gene by NF - kappaB may be partially attributed to binding to kappab site on the BMP - 2 promoter .
In vitro studies using monolayer cultures of human tumor cell lines have shown that 2 - DG selectively inhibits energy - dependent DNA repair and cellular recovery processes in cancer cells .
There was no effect on overall protein biosynthesis or ER stress .
Predictive markers for anti - VEGF agents have not yet been identified and questions regarding the usefulness of bevacizumab in the adjuvant setting as well as its continued use beyond progression remain unanswered , in spite of negative data on bevacizumab in treating patients with adjuvant colon cancer .
Killing tumor cells through their surface beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin or major histocompatibility complex class I molecules .
Murine leukemia L1210 cells rendered deficient in glutathione peroxidase ( GPX ) and phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase ( PHGPX ) by Se deprivation ( L . Se ( - ) cells ) were found to be more sensitive to tert - butyl hydroperoxide ( t - BuOOH ) cytotoxicity than Se - replete controls ( L . Se ( + ) cells ) .
Unlike the majority of somatic cells , in which hTERT and telomerase activity are generally silent , normal lymphocytes show transient physiological hTERT expression and telomerase activity according to their differentiation / activation status .
Repression of E - cadherin by transcriptional regulators such as Snail or Twist emerges as one critical step driving EMT , and this stage is currently being molecularly linked with many of the new players .
Immunocytochemistry revealed that endosialin was present in the cytoplasmic body and in the elongated extensions essential to pericyte function .
METHODS : We quantified expression of MCT isoforms in human glioblastoma multiforme and glioma - derived cells lines by Western blot analysis .
We have established a model system to detect the presence of ras p21 in the sera of Balb / c mice carrying tumors induced by a mouse cell line transformed with the Harvey murine sarcoma virus in the presence of a helper Friend murine leukemia virus .
Vimentin was expressed preferentially in tumor cells of high - grade ductal breast carcinomas ( 15 of 28 histologic grade 3 vs . 0 of 40 grades 1 and 2 ) .
[ Expression and mutation of c - kit gene in gastrointestinal stromal tumor ] .
Comparisons of presymposium and postsymposium responses and between the 2 groups of attendees indicated that the pediatric dentistry and endodontic communities agree that formocresol will be replaced as a primary tooth pulpotomy agent , that mineral trioxide is the first choice to take its place , that IPT in primary teeth holds hope as a replacement for pulpotomy , and that IPT is an acceptable pulp therapy technique for cariously involved young permanent teeth .
We analyzed their ability to block endothelial cell chemotaxis and induce apoptosis in vitro and their antiangiogenic activity in vivo .
METHODS : The effect of insulin on VEGF expression in vivo was examined by in situ hybridization studies of rat retinal VEGF transcripts .
BACKGROUND : Recent data suggest that anti - tumor activities of interleukin - 12 ( IL - 12 ) involve the induction of apoptosis .
Here , we show that the proto - oncogene N - myc promoter was down - regulated by WT1 in transient transfection assays .
Mechanisms of pericyte recruitment in tumour angiogenesis : a new role for metalloproteinases .
The present study shows that a mutant with an LMP1 site - specific mutation at TES2 , LMP1 ( TRADD ) , initially stimulates cell growth and significantly extends the life span of MEF .
The present study evaluated the effect of cumene hydroperoxide ( Cum - OOH ) on the induction of activator protein - 1 ( AP - 1 ) , which is linked to the expression of genes regulating cell proliferation , growth and transformation .
4 - Dodecylmorpholine N - oxide ( DMNO ) , one of the most active compounds , decreased the level of ATP immediately after addition to the suspension of Ehrlich cells in an ice bath .
Glucose deprivation enhanced death receptor - triggered formation of death - inducing signaling complex and early processing of procaspase - 8 .
RESULTS : ITCs were observed in peripheral blood and bone marrow even in early stages of gastric cancer .
However , whether hemostatic factors contribute directly or indirectly to the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis remains uncertain .
It has been suggested that the immortalized phenotype is mediated by an extra cellular factor .
VDAs specifically target and destroy well - established tumor vessels with ischemia and destruction of large masses with central hemorrhagic necrosis and survival of a thin peripheral tumor layer .
Both the erbA IRES and the erbA / myb IRES virus constructs transformed erythroid cells after infection of bone marrow or blastoderm cultures .
Remarkably , final sigma mRNA was undetectable in 45 of 48 primary breast carcinomas .
After seizures , blood - brain barrier breakdown and inflammation is also observed in brain , albeit on a lower scale than that observed after stroke .
The differential regulation of human telomerase reverse transcriptase and vascular endothelial growth factor may contribute to the clinically more aggressive behavior of p63 - positive breast carcinomas .
The beclin 1 autophagy gene is monoallelically deleted in 40 - 75 % of cases of human sporadic breast , ovarian , and prostate cancer .
Similar results were obtained with cell lines derived from malignant fibrous histiocytomas , leiomyosarcomas , and liposarcomas .
We have modelled multiple stages of malignant transformation of human endothelial cells ( ECs ) by overexpressing the catalytic subunit of human telomerase ( hTERT ) , together with SV40 T antigen ( SV40T ) and oncogenic N - ras .
Mechanical strain induced CBP - mediated acetylation of histones 3 and 4 at the SRF - binding site and within the CCN1 gene coding region .
Taken together , these data strongly support a role for the AP - 2 gene family , in particular , AP - 2gamma , in the control of ErbB - 3 expression .
Expression of EphA2 and E - cadherin in colorectal cancer : correlation with cancer metastasis .
These results indicate a possible role of L - NAME for the treatment of solid tumours in a systemic or regional setting .
In vitro studies , the results indicated that DATS induced morphological changes and induction of apoptosis in CT26 cells .
Aqueous humor was collected at cataract surgery from 19 diabetic patients and from 13 age - and sex - matched normoglycemic controls .
Since all these cells lack any mRNA for collagen , XII , it seems likely that the synthesis is blocked at the transcriptional level .
IUGR fetuses are both hypoxic and hypoglycaemic , and have reduced insulin and insulin - like growth factor - 1 ( IGF - 1 ) , and elevated concentrations of lactate .
Temporal changes in physiological spaces , protein expression of transporters and enzymes , and enalapril removal were appraised in the metastatic liver tumor model developed from male Wag / Rij rats after the intraportal injection of CC531 colon adenocarcinoma cells ; sham - operated preparations received PBS .
VEGF - A ( 165 ) mainly contributes to increased serum VEGF levels and may serve as a diagnostic tool in advanced - stage neuroblastoma .
Topo I expression was described as the percentage of cells staining positive for topo I , along with the intensity and localization of the staining .
ERK1 / 2 and JNK inactivation was associated with Ets - like transcription factor - 1 ( ELK - 1 ) dephosphorylation .
These data indicate that dietary folate supplementation at 4x the basal dietary requirement significantly suppresses UC - associated colorectal carcinogenesis in the IL - 2 ( null ) x beta ( 2 ) m ( null ) mice .
Expression of HER2 and bradykinin B1 receptors in precursor lesions of gallbladder carcinoma .
In juvenile brca2 mutants , oocytes failed to progress through meiosis , leading to female - to - male sex reversal .
The construction of animals doubly mutant for brca2 and the apoptotic gene tp53 ( p53 ) rescued brca2 - dependent sex reversal .
These data thus indicate that the effects on hemostasis of the drugs examined can contribute only marginally to their antimetastatic action , since more pronounced effects on hemostasis have been shown to be required to significantly affect metastasis formation .
The specific isoform ( s ) of PKC responsible for each of these changes has not been previously identified .
[ Prognostic significance of cellular vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression in the course of chronic myeloid leukaemia ]
Recently , significant improvements in survival have been achieved through the use of combination chemotherapy and monoclonal antibody regimens .
Despite convincing evidence of its efficacy , little is known about the mechanism of action of TnI as an anti - proliferative and anti - angiogenic agent .
These findings reveal what we believe to be a novel pathogenic process with important implications for the development of new therapies for AMD .
Moreover , the M2 - PK - binding peptide aptamers also reduced the proliferation rate of human U - 2 OS osteosarcoma cells .
DESIGN : Experimental study and interventional case series .
Molecular requirements for epithelial - mesenchymal transition during tumor progression .
However , owing to the long latency of tumor formation and the sporadic occurrence of bona fide mammary cancers , we conclude that the Tsg101 protein has only weak oncogenic properties .
Thus , such a resonating cross - talk can amplify Hedgehog signaling , resulting in molecular chatter that overall promotes tumor progression .
Nevertheless , its precise physiological role has not yet been established , and both anti - apoptotic and pro - apoptotic functions have been suggested for this gene .
The ability to positively and negatively regulate many of these pathways , combined with feedback signalling from these pathways to p53 , demonstrates the reciprocal and flexible nature of the regulation , facilitating a diverse range of responses to metabolic stress .
The EGFR - GEP100 - Arf6 - AMAP1 signaling pathway specific to breast cancer invasion and metastasis .
We found that the mean tumor volumes and weights were statistically significantly less in mice treated with galectin - 3C compared with control mice , and that fewer numbers of mice exhibited lymph node metastases in the treated group compared with the control group .
Only 3 of the 13 adenocarcinomas metastatic to the serous membranes included in this study were weakly reactive , accounting for 81 % specificity .
It is also expressed by many types of tumour cell and has been associated with metastasis and poor clinical outcome in a number of cancers .
In concordance with its higher affinity for tumor Hsp90 , in vivo PU24FCl accumulates in tumors while being rapidly cleared from normal tissue .
The nature of these substrates was confirmed by proteolysis techniques .
In summary , LPA is likely a key component for promoting ovarian metastasis in vivo .
Galpha ( 12 ) , the alpha - subunit of the G12 family of heterotrimeric G proteins is involved in the regulation of cell proliferation and neoplastic transformation .
Conversely , inducible over - expression of RASSF1C in breast cancer cells ( MDA - MB231 and T47D ) resulted in a small increase in cell proliferation .
Assuming discrimination thresholds between high - grade and low - grade tumours of 0 . 8 for 18F - FDG uptake and 1 . 8 for 123I - IMT uptake , the accuracy values of 18F - FDG PET and 123I - IMT SPET for differentiating between high - grade and low - grade tumours were 21 / 23 ( 91 % ) and 19 / 23 ( 83 % ) , respectively .
RESULTS : Methylation - specific polymerase chain reaction revealed PTEN promoter methylation in 15 . 9 % CCMs .
The volume density of blood vessels between the two investigated areas was significantly lower in the 1 mm / day groups , suggesting a delay in angiogenesis in this group of patients .
Thymosin beta - 4 ( TB4 ) is an actin - sequestering protein to control cytoskeletal reorganization .
This suggests that the repression of the N - myc promoter is mediated through the WT1 binding sites .
We found no additive or synergistic effect when the two agents were combined .
The amount of conjugated amine group onto the microspheres was 1 . 93 + / - 0 . 01 nmol / mg - microspheres , while the amount of heparin was 95 . 8 pmol / mg - microspheres .
While TSP - 2 deficiency did not affect tumor differentiation or proliferation , tumor cell apoptosis was significantly reduced .
Nuclear translocation of a clusterin isoform is associated with induction of anoikis in SV40 - immortalized human prostate epithelial cells .
The overall mutation rate of the MCR of the APC gene among 86 CRC cases was 12 . 8 per cent ( 11 of 86 ) .
Heart rate decreased by 32 % for 20 to 40 minutes after injection and was chronically reduced by 10 % , 14 % , and 18 . 5 % after 1 , 2 , and 3 weeks of treatment , respectively .
Large lesions with relatively good visual acuity ( 20 / 50 or better ) may be at particular risk for marked vision loss following verteporfin administration .
MDM2 overexpression was manually classified as > 5 % nuclear staining .
Glioma tumor stem - like cells promote tumor angiogenesis and vasculogenesis via vascular endothelial growth factor and stromal - derived factor 1 .
Adenovirus - mediated p53 gene transfer is ineffective in causing apoptosis in glioma cells that retain wild - type p53 genotype or overexpress the p21 protein .
Exposure to activated platelet membranes and to soluble proteins contained in activated platelet releasate both contributed to the observed increase in invasion .
RESULTS : Vandetanib treatment had no effect on tumor cell clonogenic cell survival in vitro but doses > or = 10 nM significantly reduced endothelial cell migration .
The effect of perfluorocarbon - based artificial oxygen carriers on tissue - engineered trachea .
SDF - 1alpha induced rapid phosphorylation of Erk1 / 2 MAPK but did not promote phosphorylation of Stat3 or Akt .
Perlecan was found to be anti - adhesive for platelets , however after removal of the HS chains attached to perlecan , platelet adhesion and aggregation were supported .
METHODS : One hundred and one specimens obtained from surgery were studied by immunohistochemistry using monoclonal anti - E - cadherin , anti - alpha - catenin and anti - p53 antibodies .
Several of these inhibitors are currently being evaluated in clinical trials .
Diabetic mice , which typically show impaired postischemic muscular neovascularization and blood perfusion recovery , have these defects corrected by intramuscular gene transfer of a dominant negative mutant form of p75 ( NTR ) .
Parathyroid hormone - related protein ( PTHrP ) is a secreted factor expressed in almost all normal fetal and adult tissues .
TSP - 1 inhibits angiogenesis by inhibiting endothelial cell migration and proliferation and by inducing apoptosis .
Highly metastatic IV Cl 1 cells expressed approximately 5 fold lower levels of protein encoded by NME genes than non - metastatic IV Cl 3 cells .
In conclusion , aspirin and nimesulide could inhibit cell proliferation and induce apoptosis in esophageal squamous carcinoma cells .
To induce capillary growth into the graft , we developed a method of transplanting bone marrow cells , which are primitive , strong enough to survive , and create blood cells , resulting in the inducement of capillary growth .
Thus , vimentin expression may be helpful in identifying a substantial subset of ER - independent breast carcinomas with poor prognostic indicators .
Caspase - 3 is essential for procaspase - 9 processing and cisplatin - induced apoptosis of MCF - 7 breast cancer cells .
RESULTS : Thirty - two of 35 patients ( median age , 62 years ) are evaluable for response .
HBO is useful in chronic nonhealing wounds of the diabetic foot and of the diabetic foot with impending amputation .
In oral keratinocytes BAG - 1L , but not BAG - 1M and BAG - 1S , enhanced VDR transactivation in response to 1alpha , 25 - dihydroxyvitamin D3 .
Endothelial cells grown at normal pH suffer no ill effects from this angiostatin - mediated inhibition of ATP synthase , whereas endothelial cells grown at low , tumor - like extracellular pH cannot maintain a normal intracellular pH and die .
With the recent ability to clone capillary endothelial cells and to carry them in long - term culture , it has been possible to further delineate the mechanism of capillary growth .
The oxidative burst of neutrophils stimulated by Annexin V was reduced in the saline - treated MTX group , while L - Car abolished this inhibition .
Here , the pattern of expression of angiogenin during the transition from normal breast tissue to ductal carcinoma in situ and invasive carcinoma is reported together with the correlates between the level of angiogenin in 239 invasive carcinomas and standard clinicopathological parameters , hypoxia - inducible factor ( HIF ) - 1 alpha and the HIF - 1 alpha target gene DEC - 1 .
The frequency of elevated bFGF values among all groups was statistically significant ( p = 0 . 002 ) , and the levels of bFGF in RDEB patients were significantly elevated compared with those of other groups ( p less than 0 . 05 ) .
KISS1 transcript expression remained an independent prognosticator in multivariate analyses ( P = 0 . 017 ) .
Our studies demonstrate that IFI16 mediates ICAM - 1 stimulation by TNF - alpha through the NF - kappaB pathway , thus reinforcing the role of the IFI16 molecule in the inflammation process .
In contrast , the neuroblastoma cells grown in the coculture conditioned media show no increase in apoptosis .
Following intravenous administration of cationic lipid - DNA complexes ( lipoplexes ) into mice , transfection ( lipofection ) occurs predominantly in the lungs .
The expression of endothelial cell ( EC ) adhesion molecules involved in leukocyte - vessel wall interactions is suppressed in malignancies .
The relationship between TS and DPD expression and clinicopathological data was analyzed .
The pro - oncogenic transcription factor STAT3 is constitutively activated in a wide variety of tumours that often become addicted to its activity , but no unifying view of a core function determining this widespread STAT3 - dependence has yet emerged .
This result suggested that either the structural or the functional integrity of the J domain is required to sensitize cells to apoptosis .
Topical and systemic estrogen treatments have shown an increased rate of healing by reducing inflammation , however the underlying mechanisms are little understood .
There was strong correlation between percentage perforin - positive cells and zonal tumor cell death .
After 15 days , the clots were examined by histology and electron microscopy .
Two microsatellite regions found altered in RER + colon cancers were analyzed to establish if these sequences were aberrant in CML .
This correlation was due to a higher number of blood vessels rather than to a larger size of the blood vessels .
RESULTS : The apoptosis rate of the old donor - derived MSCs group was significantly higher than that of the young donor - derived MSCs group under conditions of ischemia and anoxia ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
The interleukin ( IL ) 2 - and beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin ( beta ( 2 ) m ) - deficient ( IL - 2 ( null ) x beta ( 2 ) m ( null ) ) mice spontaneously develop colon cancer in the setting of chronic UC .
In the immunohistochemical analysis of EGFR and TGF - alpha and Ki67 index , a significant increase was observed in Ca ex - PA , especially with adenocarcinoma , compared with PA and sialadenitis .
No difference in relapse - free ( p = 0 . 26 ) or overall ( p = 0 . 63 ) survival was observed in patients stratified by angiogenin expression .
Pharmacological inhibition of autophagic flux by chloroquine increased apoptosis and decreased cell viability in hepatoma cells .
METHODS : Forty patients with recurrent or metastatic advanced cancer , without bone metastases , were randomized into the trial to either receive zoledronic acid or no treatment .
The significance of the associations was determined using Spearman correlation analysis and the chi - square test .
Moreover , outward growth migration model and transwell chamber assay were used to detect ECs migration .
These immortally transformed cells ( KMST - 6 ) showed no clonability in soft agar and were not tumorigenic .
PTEN promoter hypermethylation is a major epigenetic silencing mechanism leading to activation of angiogenesis in tumors .
Solid tumors must establish a blood supply in order to proliferate and grow .
These were pigmented , and maintained expression of tyrosinase , TRP - 1 , cytokeratin and SV40 Tag .
Studies with polymerase inhibitors suggest that this LTR transcript , designated let ( LTR - encoded trans activator ) , is a product of RNA polymerase III .
Administration of 317615 x 2HCl also increased the tumor growth delay produced by fractionated radiation therapy in the MX - 1 tumor .
Prospective and retrospective case - controlled experimental designs are not suitable for testing the above hypothesis .
The results demonstrate the possibility to generate monospecific divalent and tetravalent antibodies , immunocytokines , and dual specificity tetravalent antibodies .
Since Akt phosphorylates Chk1 - Ser ( 280 ) , the effect of Erbb2 on phosphatidyl inositol - 3 - kinase ( PI3K ) / Akt signaling during UV - induced cell cycle arrest was determined .
Better stem cell and progenitor cell markers as well as the ability to specifically target oncogenes into different mammary cell types will be needed to determine the spectrum of oncogene transformation for stem cells versus more differentiated cells .
Up - regulation of MMP activity , favoring proteolytic degradation of the basement membrane and extracellular matrix , has been linked to tumor growth and metastasis , as well as tumor - associated angiogenesis , whereas inhibition of MMP activity appears to restrict these processes .
Furthermore , the Matrigel plugs with AdCMV . VEGF165 demonstrated hemoglobin content fourfold higher than the plugs with AdCMV . beta gal .
We will demonstrate here that the level of the natural ocular anti - angiogenic agent PEDF is inversely associated with proliferative retinopathy .
ErbB - 3 ( HER3 ) is a member of the epidermal growth factor receptor family .
As HIF - 2alpha activity has been associated not only with hypoxic but also with hypoglycemic conditions , we have investigated putative effects of hypoxia , glucose depletion , and HIF - 2alpha on the neuroblastoma phenotype .
Altogether , these results suggest a new approach to promote angiogenesis by controlling Notch signaling , and may provide new options to treat patients with diseases that diminish angiogenic responsiveness .
This review will focus on the evidence for TGFbeta1 as a tumor promoting and metastasis factor and examine the biological and molecular basis for these effects .
In addition , the FAS - 670AG or GG genotype showed an increased incidence of node metastasis , but these findings were not statistically significant ( OR = 3 . 67 , 95 % CI = 0 . 96 - 14 . 00 , P = 0 . 059 ) .
The in vivo role of 9E3 / CEF4 may be involved with chemotaxis and metastasis , rather than with direct stimulation of mitogenicity .
OBJECTIVES : Strategies to inhibit the VEGF pathway , including antibodies to VEGF , antibodies to the extracellular domain of VEGFR - 1 or VEGFR - 2 , decoy receptors for VEGF and tyrosine kinase inhibitors of VEGFRs , are summarized .
Mutant mice lacking both cyclin - dependent kinase ( CDK ) inhibitors p18 ( Ink4c ) and p27 ( Kip1 ) develop a tumor spectrum reminiscent of human multiple endocrine neoplasia ( MEN ) syndromes .
Our results support the use of FDG PET in clinical trials with RAF265 to assess early tumor response .
Furthermore , the conditioned medium from these cells enhanced vascular permeability in vivo .
Inhibition of either PARP or caspase activity blocked magnolol - induced apoptosis , supporting the involvement of the caspases and PARP .
This probably results in the slower rate of osteogenesis seen at the 1 mm / day distraction rate compared with the 0 . 5 mm / day distraction rate .
The contribution of ischemia to arteriogenesis is still unclear , but arteriogenesis clearly can occur in the absence of any significant ischemia .
Protein expression profile of primary human squamous cell lung carcinomas indicative of the incidence of metastases .
It may modulate cellular energy metabolism or be a substrate in a chemical reaction generating reactive oxygen species .
One week later , IGF - 1 - transfected SMCs had increased myocardial IGF - 1 and VEGF levels , increased Bcl2 expression , limited cell apoptosis , and enhanced vessel formation in the myocardial scar compared with the two control groups ( P less than 0 . 05 for all groups ) .
Furthermore , retention of CDK4 in these TA - like pituitary cells synergizes with loss of p27 ( Kip1 ) to induce pituitary adenocarcinomas .
Our group seeks to determine the basic mechanisms underlying ES wound therapy , an area where understanding is currently limited .
WIT003 , as well as pure 20 - HETE , stimulated EC proliferation by approximately 40 % .
However , in Apc mutation - induced intestinal tumors , inactivation of Hes1 alone was sufficient for reducing tumor cell proliferation and inducing differentiation of tumor cells into all types of intestinal epithelial cells , but without affecting the homeostasis of normal crypts owing to genetic redundancy .
Expression of epidermal growth factor receptor , transforming growth factor - alpha and Ki - 67 in relationship to malignant transformation of pleomorphic adenoma .
Over - expression of either rho gene was sufficient to confer anchorage - and serum - independent growth .
In this study , we have expressed wild - type and mutant forms of VASP in endothelial cells to determine in what aspects of cytoskeletal behavior this protein participates .
The fact that viral or other adjunctive vectors were not required further suggests that secreted gene products may have potential therapeutic utility even when the number of successfully transfected cells remains low .
In wild - type VHL cells , whereas VEGF - A was significantly up - regulated under hypoxic compared with normoxic conditions ( P less than 0 . 001 ) , expression of VEGF - C was reduced ( P less than 0 . 002 ) .
CONCLUSIONS : We have established a model to study the regulation of angiogenesis by human adipose tissue .
VEGF is upregulated after hypoxic injury to the brain , which can occur during cerebral ischemia or high - altitude edema , and has been implicated in the blood - brain barrier breakdown associated with these conditions .
H4 cells formed tight , round spheroids whereas H5 cells formed loose , grape - like structures .
Vimentin expression , growth fractions ( GF ) , and estrogen receptor ( ER ) levels were determined for 90 untreated primary breast carcinomas .
TS - 1 is a new , oral anticancer agent composed of two modulators , gimeracil ( CDHP ) and oteracil potassium ( Oxo ) are mixed with tegafur in a ratio of 1 : 0 . 4 : 1 .
Restoration occurred in the presence of a protein synthesis inhibitor but not after a transcriptional block , indicating that c - myc is a direct , transcriptionally regulated target of c - Myb .
Lactate concentrations were significantly higher ( P less than 0 . 001 ) at baseline and all time periods of the glucose tolerance test in dogs with lymphoma when compared with controls .
We found a ser122 - pro mutation in the NME2 gene of metastatic IV Cl 1 cells .
With the appropriate agent , targeting endosialin may interfere with blood vessel growth during tumor development .
Eight founder and progeny mice of 5 different lines were monitored for leukemogenesis .
Integrin alpha5beta1 immobilized on a ProteoChip was used to screen new antagonistic peptides from multiple hexapeptide sub - libraries of the positional scanning synthetic peptide combinatorial library ( PS - SPCL ) .
In addition suppression of WT1 expression by WT1 anti - sense oligonucleotide inhibits proliferation of leukemia cells , suggesting that WT1 is important for their proliferation .
All genes except those encoding angiotensinogen and epoxide hydrolase ( that were decreased ) , and 12 - lipoxygenase and vascular endothelial growth factor ( that showed no change ) , were significantly up - regulated in GK islets .
We undertook this study to test the hypothesis that Fas - FasL - mediated apoptosis plays a role in IL - 12 - induced tumor regression .
Osteotomy fracture healing without the traction stimulus failed to induce a corresponding increase in these factors .
The baseline visual acuity was similar in the various study groups .
All were assessed by a complete ophthalmological examination , including assessment of the best corrected visual acuity ( BCVA ) using an ETDRS chart , fluorescein and indocyanine angiography and optical coherence tomography ( OCT ) .
The ability of distinct subdomains within VASP to bind adhesion proteins and induce F - actin bundling in vivo suggests that this protein could function in the aggregation and tethering of actin filaments during the formation of endothelial cell - substrate and cell - cell contacts .
Adult mutants became sterile males due to the meiotic arrest of spermatocytes , which then died by apoptosis , followed by neoplastic proliferation of gonad somatic cells that was similar to neoplasia observed in ageing dead end ( dnd ) - knockdown males , which lack germ cells .
Angiogenic factors , in particular vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and the angiopoietins , Ang - 1 and - 2 , have recently generated significant interest , especially in oncology .
DATS were injected once per four days intraperitoneally ( i . p . ) , with treatment starting 4 weeks prior to cells inoculation .
Thus , 20 - HETE may be involved in the regulation of EC functions , such as angiogenesis .
Analysis of Runx2 - expressing lymphomas reveals a consistently low rate of apoptosis , in contrast to lymphomas of MYC mice which are often highly apoptotic .
The role of BRCA1 in sporadic breast and ovarian cancers remains elusive .
Tumors display a high rate of glucose uptake and glycolysis .
The mean final visual acuity in eyes with higher refractive error at baseline ( greater than - 17 diopters ) was significantly better ( P = 0 . 014 ) than that in eyes with lower refractive error ( - 6 to - 10 diopters ) .
Curcumin also significantly decreased ( P < 0 . 05 ) the expression of uPA and NF - kappaB DNA binding activity , respectively .
This in vitro transformation process involves multiple steps : slow - growing ' pre - neoplastic ' epithelial foci are induced 70 - 100 days after MNU treatment and from such foci rapidly proliferating immortal cell lines were established , some of which became tumorigenic after a further latent period .
The aim of this study is to compare behavior and tissue response between two new polyester prostheses and a commonly used polypropylene ( PP ) mesh .
Additionally , the angiogenic and lymphangiogenic profiles of the tumors were characterized .
In both growth states , PDBu caused loss of protein kinase C activity , which reflected a loss in protein mass as determined by immunoblotting with antiserum to protein kinase C .
We quantified the expression of alpha - SMA as a marker of myofibroblasts in the invasive breast cancer .
PURPOSE : To assess the safety and effectiveness of photodynamic therapy ( PDT ) with verteporfin for subfoveal choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) secondary to pathologic myopia ( PM ) .
Comparison between cells revealed different apoptosis kinetics : accumulation of cells in sub - G1 phase and poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase cleavage occurred earlier in LoVo - mycANS .
Ruffling occurs only on the expression of forms of VASP that possess bundling activity and the capacity to bind zyxin / vinculin - derived peptide .
Grossly , the tumour showed a haemorrhagic cut surface with numerous microcystic structures .
The results imply that various different proteins may lead to HCC metastasis together .
Although insulin sensitivity of skeletal muscle was also reduced in patients with lymphoma , the net insulin effect may counteract imbalance between glucose uptake of tumor and muscle , offering a potential means to circumvent at least some metabolic abnormalities found in cancer .
Infiltration of dendritic cells correlated negatively with distant lymph node metastases , clinical stage , and peritoneal invasion .
Fibroblasts of the host animal may thus have an important role in generating enhanced metastatic activity of H - 3 cells .
Thus , supplementation with L - Carnitine as an adjuvant therapy may be promising in alleviating the systemic side - effects of chemotherapeutics .
Moreover , when introduced into nude mice , selected clones generated from either gene were able to induce tumors , although those carrying the mutated version were more efficient .
It is regulated by numerous angiogenic factors , one of the most important being vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
The experimental studies in vitro and in vivo were performed to investigate the effects of carcinostatic agents in the adhesion of cancer cells to endothelial cells .
Transformation of primary cells in cultures requires both overcoming growth arrest by stimulating the cell cycle and blocking cell death activities presumably activated by oncogene - mediated hyperproliferation signals .
The down - regulation of MTSS1 that may be caused by DNA methylation was also observed in many other types of cancer .
Insulin - induced vascular endothelial growth factor expression in retina .
RESULTS : The final visual acuity of the study patients , after a median follow - up of 31 months , improved by greater than or = 1 Snellen lines in 8 patients ( 13 % ) , deteriorated in 20 ( 32 % ) , and remained stable in 34 ( 55 % ) .
CONCLUSIONS : We reported here for the first time the involvement of PTEN promoter methylation in CCMs , particularly in familial CCMs , suggesting this epigenetic alteration as a potential pathomechanism of CCMs .
Previously we observed that neural cell adhesion molecule ( NCAM ) deficiency in beta tumor cells facilitates metastasis into distant organs and local lymph nodes .
In addition , VEGF might be associated with the etiology of periodontitis in its early stages according to neovascularization stimulated by periodontal pathogens causing swelling and edema .
Skin deep and deeper : multiple pathways in basal cell carcinogenesis .
Osteonectin transcript and metastatic behavior in v - Ki - ras transformed fibroblasts .
RESULTS : Most tumors less than 35 mm3 were white but tumors greater than 35 mm3 were pink and had a vascularized capsule .
Exposure to combinations of paclitaxel or carboplatin and 317615 x 2HCl with MX - 1 cells in culture resulted in cell survival that reflected primarily additivity of the two agents .
RESULTS : Both SAT and VAT expressed angiogenic factors without significant difference for vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression .
Thus , our results suggest that sustained FOXO3a activation can enhance hyperactivation of the PI3K / Akt pathway .
In summary , these results suggest that ADAM - 9 expression plays an important role in mediating cell - cell contacts between fibroblasts and melanoma cells and that these interactions contribute to proteolytic activities required during invasion of melanoma cells .
The specific enhancement of tumor proliferation in vitro .
UV radiation has been shown to play a role in the initiation of human cutaneous melanoma , but its role in the development of malignant melanoma to the metastatic state is not very well defined .
FA induced GR - mediated transcription in Ca3 / 7 cells transfected with a luciferase reporter gene under the control of glucocorticoid response element ( GRE ) , but DMI alone did not affect GR - mediated transcription .
The underlying mechanisms were systematically investigated in vitro and in vivo .
The result of double staining indicated that macrophage with positive VEGF - C expression accounted for about 22 . 8 % of the total .
We have previously shown that massive apoptosis occurs when wild - type p53 or E2F - 1 expression is induced in glioma .
Androgen stimulates glycolysis for de novo lipid synthesis by increasing the activities of hexokinase 2 and 6 - phosphofructo - 2 - kinase / fructose - 2 , 6 - bisphosphatase 2 in prostate cancer cells .
Overexpression of Glut - 1 glucose transporter in human breast cancer .
Notch signaling regulates intestinal development , homeostasis and tumorigenesis , but its precise downstream mechanism remains largely unknown .
Cooccurrence of reduced expression of alpha - catenin and overexpression of p53 is a predictor of lymph node metastasis in early gastric cancer .
Depletion of ARD1 by shRNA suppressed PCa cell proliferation , anchorage - independent growth , and xenograft tumor formation in SCID mice , suggesting that AR - dependent ARD1 expression is biologically germane .
Three weeks later , 2 x 10 ( 6 ) cells from three groups were implanted into the scar .
Furthermore , gonadotropin - and / or estrogen - mediated maintenance of SEMA3 expression could control ovarian cancer angiogenesis and metastasis .
These findings suggest that targeting beta ( 2 ) M or MHC class I by using antibodies or other agents offers a potential therapeutic approach for beta ( 2 ) M / MHC class I - expressing malignancies .
Differential regulation of in vivo angiogenesis by angiotensin II receptors .
FPR and the piperazine derivatives inhibited the activation of this enzyme .
Chondrocyte - DegraPol in Oxygent group presented lower glycosaminoglycan value ( 0 . 03 + / - 0 . 00 vs . 0 . 13 + / - 0 . 00 , p less than 0 . 05 ) ; histology slides showed poor acid mucopolysaccharides formation .
Pretreatment with aspirin and nimesulide inhibited EC9706 and EC109 cell growth in a time and dose - dependent manner , accompanied with a decrease of prostaglandin E2 production .
The overexpression of Tsg101 resulted in increased phosphorylation of the epidermal growth factor receptor and downstream activation of MAP kinases .
All had palpable pedal pulses .
METHODS : XTT cell proliferation assay was used for showing cytotoxicity .
However , mice treated with t - butanol , an alcohol not metabolized by alcohol dehydrogenase , exhibited no change in wound vascularity .
Recent studies on factors involved in tumor vascular development have identified new therapeutic targets for inhibiting tumor neovascularization and thus tumor progression .
The contribution of Harold F . Dvorak to the study of tumor angiogenesis and stroma generation mechanisms .
CCL16 may be specifically cross - linked to CCR1 expressed on endothelial cells .
20 - Hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid ( 20 - HETE ) is formed by the omega - hydroxylation of arachidonic acid by cytochrome P450 4A and 4F enzymes , and it induces angiogenic responses in vivo .
Keratinocyte progenitor cells from TPA - treated Tg . AC mice were isolated with fluorescence - activated cell sorting and expression was analyzed using cDNA microarray technology .
In contrast , tunicamycin had little effect on the viability and MTT responses of the cells used .
Using tamoxifen and doxorubicin - sensitive and - resistant breast cancer cell lines as models , we found that doxorubicin - but not tamoxifen - resistance is associated with nuclear accumulation of FOXO3a , consistent with the finding that sustained nuclear FOXO3a is associated with poor prognosis .
This technique showed strong abdominal neovascularization in wild - type mice , but not eNOS knockout mice , locally injected with VEGF , as well as stimulation of angiogenesis in NO donor - injected mice .
However , as yet , there is no genetic evidence for a role of autophagy genes in tumor suppression .
Invasion of the human melanoma cell line , BLM , was also attenuated by the anti - PAI - 1 monoclonal antibody MAI - 12 .
Myeloma cells counteracted the metabolic stress by activating autophagy .
The B ( 1 ) R distribution pattern mirrored that of HER2 except that B ( 1 ) R was additionally observed in the adenomas .
The beneficial effect of IL - 1Ra on most islet endothelial / OS / immune cells / fibrosis parameters analyzed highlights a major endothelial - related role for IL - 1 in GK islet alterations .
These results indicate that the INK4B locus , similarly to INK4A - ARF , harbors two different splicing variants that can be involved in the regulation of both the p53 and retinoblastoma pathways , the two major molecular pathways in tumor suppression .
The cellular tumour antigen p53 is found at elevated levels in a wide variety of transformed cells ( for reviews see refs 1 , 2 ) .
We further show that in extracts from caspase - 3 - deficient MCF - 7 cells , procaspase - 9 processing is strongly impaired after stimulation with either cytochrome c or recombinant caspase - 8 .
Research on age - related impaired wound healing suggests that the decline in sex steroid hormones with age may have a substantial influence on the inflammatory response in vivo .
A long - lived line , RSVT - 2 , was produced and an immortalized subclone , RSVT2 / C , was further derived under a forced crisis regimen .
In addition , it significantly extends the passage number of MEF cells to more than 30 after retroviral infection , compared with less than 5 for uninfected MEF cells .
These patients included many who were enrolled in the Epidermolysis Bullosa Registry and others who were referred by their physicians .
This analysis revealed a total of 22 protein - spots whose expression was altered by more than 3 - folds .
Protein up - regulation of HER2 in the epithelium with metaplasia or carcinoma in situ was not accompanied by HER2 gene amplification .
The mechanism underlying the association between high PE and poor clinical outcome is unclear , although it may be related to the possible PE reflection of tumor burden .
Interestingly , crossing of cyclin D1 transgenic mice with E mu L - myc transgenics that express their transgene in both B - and T - cells but predominantly develop T - cell tumours leads in double transgenics exclusively to B - cell neoplasia .
Fluroquinolone antibiotics such as ciprofloxacin , which can be administered p . o . , may have a profound effect in bladder cancer management .
Twenty mature male New Zealand white rabbits ( 3 kg weight ) were employed to evaluate the effects of two empirically selected stimulation paradigms applied continuously for 7 - 21 days , using each animal as its own control .
Primary human keratinocytes lacking G45 ( DeltaG45 ) showed alterations of basal receptor organization , impaired matrix deposition , and increased migration .
Age alone should not preclude the use of chemotherapy in stage IV colorectal cancer , although the ability to tolerate drug - related toxicity may be a consideration .
HSP27 expression was positive staining ( + ) in 20 ( 50 % ) , weak or negative staining ( - ) in 20 ( 50 % ) of total 40 cases .
METHODS AND RESULTS : Purified B - CLL cells from 15 patients were cultured either alone or with Sim at concentrations of 10 , 50 , and 100 microM .
Glucose deprivation - mediated sensitization to apoptosis was prevented in MCF - 7 cells overexpressing BCL - 2 .
A vascular prosthesis needs angiogenesis for endothelialization of the luminal surface , as endothelial cells have natural and permanent antithrombogenic properties .
Six weeks later , mice were randomly divided into four treatment groups : untreated controls ; 10 minute daily TEMF ; 200 cGy of IR every other day ( total 800 cGy ) ; IR plus daily TEMF .
Western blotting of p53 and murine double mutant 2 ( Mdm2 ) together with p53 DNA sequencing analysis indicate that p53 function loss by mutation or overexpression of Mdm2 occurred in all tested oral cancer cells regardless of their etiology .
In this study , we identified Pbx1 , a proto - oncogene in hematopoietic malignancy , as a target gene of Evi - 1 .
The aim of this study was to investigate the expression profile of AQPs in human breast cancer and its significance .
Randomized , open label , prospective study on the effect of zoledronic acid on the prevention of bone metastases in patients with recurrent solid tumors that did not present with bone metastases at baseline .
This ultimately deprives VEGF receptors of an essential molecule required for promoting the disruption of endothelial cell - cell contacts and paracellular permeability .
During normal skin function , p53 in the keratinocyte is a transducer of the skin tanning signal and an essential component of what is effectively a keratinocyte - melanocyte signaling cycle that regulates skin pigmentation .
In contrast , therapeutic angiogenesis is based on the concept that coronary collateral development may be stimulated by pharmacological or molecular means and can limit myocardial ischemia .
The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate firstly whether different protein expression patterns exist in primary squamous cell lung carcinomas of patients with and without lymph node involvement and secondly , whether or not different patterns exist in tumours with positive lymph nodes .
In conclusion , HAH - cortisol represents the prototype of a new class of angiogenesis inhibitors for the treatment of cancer and other angiogenic diseases .
The disintegrin - like and cysteine - rich domains of ADAM - 9 mediate interactions between melanoma cells and fibroblasts .
Evaluation of VEGF expression level with the same tissues was used to establish the antigenic profiles , and the marker of CD34 staining was used as an indicator of microvessel density ( MVD ) .
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of doxorubicin in Hct - 116 human colon carcinoma cells in order to clarify if a time / concentration range for optimal doxorubicin - induced apoptosis exists .
The apoptotic cascade was studied by immunoblot analysis of caspases following Sim treatment .
In contrast to CYR61 and CTGF , no significant association was found between expression of either WISP - 1 or NOV versus any of the pathological features .
In both cases , regulation of syndecan - 1 occurred post - transcriptionally , since syndecan - 1 mRNA levels remained unchanged .
M - CSF also induced the nuclear localization of Sp1 , which was blocked by ERK inhibition .
This phenotype was most likely based on decreased focal contact turnover caused by reduced expression of p130Cas , a key player in directed cell migration .
Depletion of polyphenol with polyvinylpyrrolidone abolished the antiangiogenic activity of GSE , suggesting a water - soluble fraction of polyphenol in GSE is responsible for the antiangiogenic activity .
Nerve growth factor ( NGF ) has been demonstrated to support survival and differentiation of neuroblastoma ( NB ) cells by activation of the TrkA receptor .
A transcript from the long terminal repeats of a murine retrovirus associated with trans activation of cellular genes .
To investigate how CSC contribute to tumor vascular development , we used an approach comparing tumor xenografts of the C6 glioma cell line containing either a low or a high fraction of CSC .
Of all the secretory products of mast cells tested , only heparin stimulated capillary endothelial cell migration in vitro .
Ang - 1 has been shown to induce the migration and sprouting of endothelial cells , and coexpression of Ang - 1 and VEGF enhanced angiogenesis .
Finally , DNase I footprint analysis with a segment of the promoter containing these elements reveals the binding of several nuclear proteins .
In contrast VEGF - B was not regulated by VHL despite clear up - regulation in vivo .
Our results confirm a close link between the two metabolic enzymes and indicate an alteration in the glucose metabolism in the process of malignant transformation .
No significant correlation could be detected with regard to TNM - stage , grading or survival .
There is only one prior report describing rofecoxib treatment in a single haemophilia patient .
Nuclear factor - kappaB ( NF - kappaB ) activation contributes to the development of metastasis , thus leading to a poor prognosis in many cancers , including OSCC .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : Twenty - one patients with radiation retinopathy ( edema , hemorrhages , capillary dropout , and neovascularization ) and a subjective or objective loss of vision were treated .
Fluorescence - activated cell sorter analysis showed that isolated tumor ECs have suppressed levels of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 as compared with ECs from normal mouse tissues .
Reactive astrocytic processes and phagocytic cells are also present in the grafts .
For patients with adenocarcinomas in the lung , TTF - 1 staining is now routinely used to distinguish a primary lung cancer from a lung metastasis .
METHODS : Preoperative plasma fibrinogen levels were retrospectively examined in 405 patients who underwent surgery for advanced gastric cancer .
When the patients were divided into two groups according to their alpha - SMA expression using a cutoff point at the mean value of 8 . 48 % , the high alpha - SMA group had a significantly poorer overall survival rate ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
To define these roles more clearly , we examined the expression of DCC and its ligand , netrin - 1 , in the normal endometrium and in endometrial cancer .
Ovarian cancer is a highly metastatic disease .
Therefore , we confirmed the key findings by replicating these experiments in human neuroblastoma SK - N - SH cells .
CONCLUSIONS : The combination of bevacizumab and irinotecan is safe and has excellent activity even in this relapsed , heavily pretreated population of patients with high - grade malignant glioma , most of whom would not be candidates for clinical trials .
Formation of apoptotic bodies was preceded by lowering of intracellular polyamines , particularly putrescine , and both dose - and time - dependent inhibitory and activation effect by ACA on ornithine decarboxylase ( ODC ) and spermidine / spermine N ( 1 ) - acetyltransferase ( SSAT ) , respectively .
NOS activities were measured by the L - citrulline assay in peritoneal biopsies from seven control subjects , eight uremic patients immediately before the onset of PD , and 13 uremic patients on short - term ( less than 18 mo , n = 6 ) or long - term ( greater than 18 mo , n = 7 ) PD .
In the present study , the authors used molecular techniques to analyze the clonal composition of five cases of concurrent adenocarcinomas of the endometrium and ovary that were clinicopathologically diagnosed as synchronous primary tumors .
In vivo , LPA stimulates tumor metastasis in an orthotopic ovarian tumor model , which can be inhibited by a PI3K inhibitor , LY294002 .
The role of fibrinolysis in growth and metastasis was examined in Lewis lung carcinoma of mice .
RESULTS : Our results revealed that docetaxel and ATRA were synergistically cytotoxic and apoptotic in DU - 145 cells , in a dose - and time dependent manner .
Microarray analysis indicated significant alterations in expression of genes related to the TGFbeta pathway , as well as genes involved in infertility and extracellular matrix production .
These results show that matrix metalloproteinases are present at elevated levels during early wound healing , when angiogenesis occurs , and suggest that matrix metalloproteinase - 9 may play a significant role .
Surprisingly , TSP - 2 expression was strongly upregulated in the mesenchymal stroma of wild - type mice throughout the consecutive stages of tumorigenesis whereas the angiogenesis factor , vascular endothelial growth factor , was induced predominantly in tumor cells .
FM - MSC or BM - MSC obtained from Lewis rats were injected into a MHC - mismatched August - Copenhagen - Irish rat model of hind limb ischemia .
Endothelial cell migration was increased by Rab5a depletion but decreased by Rab7a depletion .
However , its transcript has been found in many soft , extracellular matrix - producing tissues ; an osteonectin - related protein was detected in tumor basement membrane .
For investigation of cell suspensions , four pleural fluids were incubated with anticalretinin antiserum .
We investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying NRP1 - mediated angiogenesis by analyzing the association of NRP1 and KDR .
Vimentin expression was found preferentially in tumors with high GF ( greater than 15 % Ki - 67 positive by immunoperoxidase staining ) and low ER levels ( less than 60 fmols / mg protein by a monoclonal enzyme immunoassay ) .
Regardless how death is inflicted , every cancer cell must die , be it fast or slow .
PURPOSE : Molecular antagonists of the inhibitor of apoptosis protein survivin have shown promise as novel anticancer strategies for triggering tumor cell apoptosis , dysregulating mitotic progression , and inhibiting tumor growth in preclinical models .
c - myb is a frequent target of retroviral insertional mutagenesis in murine leukemia virus - induced myeloid leukemia .
However , there were no significant differences in serum IL - 8 concentrations between NHL patients and controls ( 159 . 2 + / - 40 . 4 vs . 99 . 6 + / - 107 . 1 pg / mL ; P = 0 . 099 ) .
Increased NOS activity is mediated solely by Ca ( 2 + ) - dependent NOS and , as shown by immunoblotting , an upregulation of endothelial NOS .
CONCLUSION : The data suggest that both h - MVD and VEGF immunoreactivity may be useful predictors for the progression of a subset of OSCC associated mostly with betel use .
Extensive research , however , has revealed that TNF - alpha is one of the major players in tumor initiation , proliferation , invasion , angiogenesis and metastasis .
VPF / VEGF induced dermal microvascular EC expression of mRNAs encoding the alphav and beta3 integrin subunits resulting in increased levels of the alphavbeta3 heterodimer at the cell surface , and VPF / VEGF also induced mRNA encoding osteopontin ( OPN ) , an alphavbeta3 ligand .
Historically , PDT has been limited by a lack of suitable photosensitive dyes .
Monitoring peroxide - induced changes in GSH and GSSG gave consistent results ; e . g . , glucose - depleted L . Se ( + ) cells exhibited a first order loss of GSH that was substantially faster than that of glucose - depleted L . Se ( - ) cells .
Cervical cancer develops from well - defined precursor lesions referred to as either cervical intraepithelial neoplasia or squamous intraepithelial lesions .
As a result , cells are protected from apoptosis and senescence while becoming highly sensitive to glucose deprivation .
Histological analysis demonstrated the presence of blood vessels throughout the soft connective tissue in the distraction gap .
Here we show that angiogenesis is severely impaired in PSMA - null animals and that this angiogenic defect occurs at the level of endothelial cell invasion through the extracellular matrix barrier .
All of these parameters were reduced by the COX - II inhibitors , suggesting that changes in the vasculature are responsible for the decrease in serum progesterone .
IL - 1Ra also improved islet vascularization , reduced fibrosis and ameliorated glycemia .
Syndecans are a family of transmembrane heparan sulfate proteoglycans widely expressed in both developing and adult tissues .
Since the intrinsic resistance of prostate carcinoma likely reflects a low susceptibility to drug - induced apoptosis , in this study we explored the possibility of sensitizing prostate carcinoma cells to apoptosis by combination of TRAIL with camptothecins .
Molecular characterization of angiogenic properties of human oral squamous cell carcinoma cells .
To understand the molecular mechanisms underlying compound - induced hemangiosarcomas in mice , and therefore , their human relevance , a systems biology approach was undertaken using transcriptomics and Causal Network Modeling from mice treated with 2 - butoxyethanol ( 2 - BE ) .
These findings suggest that c - Myc and / or HIF - 1alpha activities are both involved in the regulation of glycolysis in breast cancers .
Nonetheless , anti - VEGF therapy has enhanced the arsenal of anticancer therapies and has provided new insights into the biology of malignancy .
Consistent with the decrease in lymph node metastasis , tumor lymphangiogenesis and expression of vascular endothelial growth factor C ( VEGF - C ) was significantly decreased in artemisinin - treated mice , as compared to control mice .
Topoisomerase I ( topo I ) is an important target for the treatment of malignant disease , especially colorectal cancer .
Hence , regulatory mechanisms of IL - 8 need to be investigated in whole tissue .
To identify a suitable donor cell population for gene therapy applications to the central nervous system , primary fibroblasts isolated from skin biopsies and maintained in culture are employed as autologous cells for intracerebral grafting within the adult rat striatum .
In co - transfection experiments , exogenous expression of AP - 2gamma robustly activated ErbB - 3 promoter activity .
Analysis of TGF - beta RII mRNA expression by RNase protection , with comparison of cells from the chronic , accelerated and blast phases of CML , showed no change in TGF - beta RII transcript levels during disease progression .
Our results suggest that EPOX is a novel antiangiogenic agent , making it a promising lead compound for further development in the treatment of angiogenesis - related pathologies .
We therefore hypothesized that ANG II could be a mediator between homeostatic changes within the vascular perfusion bed and growth factor - driven angiogenesis .
Dss1 overexpression was detected by Northern blot analysis in early TPA - treated hyperplastic skins and in JB6 Cl 41 - 5a epidermal cells .
These findings also illustrate an operational link between VPF / VEGF induction of EC gene expression and VPF / VEGF enhancement of microvascular permeability , suggesting that these distinct biological activities may act accordingly to stimulate EC migration during angiogenesis .
Photodynamic therapy with verteporfin for subfoveal choroidal neovascularization secondary to pathologic myopia : long - term study .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : We used rAAV2 / 5 to deliver vasostatin intratumorally or systemically in different mouse lung tumor models - - subcutaneous , orthotopic xenograft , and spontaneous metastasis lung tumor models .
Recently , knock - out mice of homeobox genes by targeted disruption have also been used to examine their hematological effect .
These findings indicate that TS and CD82 may be of great value in assessing lymph node metastasis of OSCC , and could be taken as new targets for therapy of metastatic OSCC .
In human endothelial cells , cediranib inhibited VEGF - E - induced phosphorylation of VEGFR - 2 and VEGF - C156S - induced phosphorylation of VEGFR - 3 at concentrations of less than / = 1nmol / L and inhibited activation of downstream signaling molecules .
PURPOSE : Heparin immobilized porous poly ( D , L - lactic - co - glycolic acid ) ( PLGA ) microspheres were prepared for sustained release of basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) to induce angiogenesis .
A synergistic anti - tumour effect of L - NAME is observed in combination with melphalan and / or TNF using ILP .
In addition , the positivity rate of EphA2 was significantly higher in primary lesions with lymph node metastasis than in those without metastasis ( p = 0 . 0014 ) .
Induction of the leukemogenic phenotype is generally associated with inappropriate expression of this transcriptional regulator .
Lactoferrin enhances Fas expression and apoptosis in the colon mucosa of azoxymethane - treated rats .
Four selected cell hybrids expressed the human transforming gene product p21 at levels of 10 to 30 % compared to 100 % in the transformed parental cells .
In contrast , at least some of these sites were not methylated in DNA from the B - cells expressing high levels of DR alpha mRNA .
METHODOLOGY / PRINCIPAL FINDINGS : Here , we propose a novel HDAC inhibitor , N - Hydroxy - 4 - ( 4 - phenylbutyryl - amino ) benzamide ( HTPB ) , as a potential chemotherapeutic drug for solid tumors .
Notably , AglRhz inhibits insulin - like growth factor ( IGF ) - 1 - induced AP - 1 activity and cell transformation in JB6 Cl41 cells .
Acetylation of histone and non - histone proteins , induction of apoptotic - related proteins and de - phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase were confirmed in treated mice .
Overexpression of Evi - 1 increased Pbx1 expression in hematopoietic stem / progenitor cells .
Pretreatment IL levels were not associated with outcome .
The leukemia cell lines K562 and HL - 60 had no detectable TGF - beta RII mRNA .
Fas and FasL proteins were increased approximately twofold in the RM - 9 - IL12 tumors compared with the RM - 9 control tumors as determined by Western blot and immunohistochemical analyses ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Induction of this DNA - binding activity was accompanied by tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat3 and correlated with Src transformation .
This effect was observed whether the cells had been treated with all - trans - RA in serum - free medium or in medium supplemented with heat - inactivated or acid - treated fetal bovine serum .
This reduction disappeared with increasing distance from the tumor .
RESULTS : Expression of E - cadherin and alpha - catenin was reduced in 50 . 5 and 64 . 4 % , respectively .
The data provide an example of coordinated changes in the expression of two cell adhesion molecules , syndecan - 1 and E - cadherin during epithelial cell transformation .
Robo4 knockdown endothelial cells unexpectedly show up regulation of Rho GTPases .
E1A proteins stimulate DNA synthesis and cell proliferation ; however , they also cause rapid cell death by p53 - dependent and p53 - independent apoptosis .
Lack of IL - 17F did not reverse the splenomegaly but partially restored thymic atrophy , suggesting a local effect of IL - 17F in the intestine .
Our studies highlight the plasticity of aggressive human ovarian carcinoma cells and call into question the underlying significance of their ability to form VM in vitro induced by VEGF - a .
Promoter region hypermethylation was significantly more common ( P < 0 . 008 ) in breast and ovarian cancer ( 6 / 38 tumours methylated ) than in colon cancer ( 0 / 35 tumours methylated ) or in leukaemias ( 0 / 19 samples methylated ) .
TUNEL data are reported as percentage apoptotic cells .
From these results , it was suggested that PPARgamma activation might suppress COX - 2 expression via the nuclear factor - kappaB pathway in the ovarian carcinoma cells and that low expression of PPARgamma and high expression of COX - 2 might be involved in carcinogenesis and progression of ovarian tumours .
Cells which were grown in media containing 5 and 10 ng / ml TGF - beta demonstrated a low level of colony - forming efficiency in soft agar medium without added epidermal growth factor and tumorigenicity in isogeneic rats .
We used neutralizing Abs to show that the IFN - inducible protein - 10 and monokine - induced by IFN - gamma chemokines are pivotal in inducing these effects .
The inhibition of fibrinolysis or proteases decreased the primary tumor growth and pulmonary metastasis , whereas the activation of fibrinolysis or proteases increased the number of metastatic foci in the lung .
The present study was designed to investigate the effect of transplanted MSCs from rats of different ages on the improvement of heart function after AMI .
To examine this hypothesis , we used NCI - H1299 non - small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) cell line ( p53 and PTEN null cell ) and constructed an ICAM - 3 - over - expressing stable transfectant , which exhibited increased cell migration and invasion .
RESULTS : The mean Rentrop collateral score was higher in Group 1 than in Group 2 ( 2 . 39 + / - 1 . 07 vs . 1 . 76 + / - 0 . 76 , respectively , p less than 0 . 001 ) .
Changes of bile reflux to the stomach was observed endoscopically at 24 weeks as well as the development of gastric mucosal erosions .
This protein has been shown to be a protein kinase that phosphorylates on tyrosine residues .
In addition , LMP1 plays pleiotropic roles in cell growth arrest , differentiation , and apoptosis , depending on the background of the target cells .
Assays used to screen for BRAF mutations in the clinic should be robust enough to detect the p . Val600Lys mutation , as this may have therapeutic implications .
CONCLUSION : Merlin protein might contribute to the initiation of metastasis of NSCLC .
Anti - endosialin was capable of preventing pericyte tube formation in culture and inhibited migration .
We show that ING4 physically interacts with p65 ( RelA ) subunit of nuclear factor NF - kappaB , and that ING4 regulates brain tumour angiogenesis through transcriptional repression of NF - kappaB - responsive genes .
Collagen - poly glycolic acid hybrid matrix with basic fibroblast growth factor accelerated angiogenesis and granulation tissue formation in diabetic mice .
Expression profiling in progressive stages of fumarate - hydratase deficiency : the contribution of metabolic changes to tumorigenesis .
Additionally , impaired placental angiogenesis and uteroplacental blood flow appears to be an early defect in both the hyperthermic and adolescent paradigms .
Binding of anticalretinin antiserum to living mesothelial cells was consistently documented in all four cases investigated .
Apoptosis was further measured by DNA fragmentation and microscope examination .
Inhibition of NF - kappaB significantly reduced transcript levels and autocrine production of BMP - 2 by rhTNF - alpha stimulated C4 - 2B cells and to a lesser extent by the parental LNCaP cells .
Subcutaneous implantation of bFGF loaded PLGA - heparin microspheres in mice significantly induced the formation of new vascular microvessels .
The tyrosine kinase inhibitor cediranib blocks ligand - induced vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 3 activity and lymphangiogenesis .
No significant association was demonstrated between VEGF - B , VEGF - C , flt - 1 , KDR , and flt - 4 with patient sex , patient age , or tumor size ( P greater than 0 . 05 ) .
Relationship of cellular immunity , cytokines and CRP with clinical course in breast cancer patients with endocrine - dependent distant metastases treated with immunotherapy .
T140 analogs are peptidic CXCR4 antagonists composed of 14 amino acid residues that were previously developed as anti - HIV agents having inhibitory activity against HIV - entry through its co - receptor , CXCR4 .
Therefore we suggest that HKa through its D5 domain alters P13 - kinase - Akt signaling to inhibit endothelial cell migration through alterations in the focal adhesions .
Insulin concentrations were significantly higher ( P less than 0 . 001 ) at baseline and at the 5 - , 45 - , 60 - , and 90 - minute time periods of the glucose tolerance test in dogs with lymphoma .
Angiogenesis is the biologic process of forming new blood vessels .
The epithelioid cells were entirely supported by proliferated capillaries and arteries together with collagenous stroma .
In contrast , doxorubicin treatment of mutant ( mut ) p53 cells ( EU - 6 / ALL line ) up - regulated survivin and induced G ( 2 ) / M arrest without inducing apoptosis .
Concomitant inhibition of autophagy may be an attractive strategy for unlocking the antitumor potential of sorafenib in HCC .
TRAP - activated platelets stimulated a dose - dependent increase in SKOV3 cell invasion .
SPARC maybe involved in the regulation of anti - angiogenesis by which it may serve as a novel target for colon cancer treatment as well as a novel distinctive marker .
The tumor mass thus formed was an average 5 . 8 - fold as large as control A431 tumors that were grown without F - 2 cells .
Specifically , CLA was found to decrease the ability of mammary stromal cells to form complex anastomosing microcapillary networks in vitro on Engelbreth - Holm - Swarm - derived reconstituted basement membrane .
Histological examination of tumors from linomide - treated animals revealed marked avascularity .
These observations provide evidence that enhanced proliferation in N - ras - transformed cells compromises teratocarcinoma cell differentiation by a mechanism that transiently suppresses homeobox gene induction and implies a central role for homeobox genes in RA - induced cell differentiation .
Syndecan - 1 expression in mammary epithelial tumor cells is E - cadherin - dependent .
There were no differences in NME mRNA levels between these two cell lines , suggesting that expression of these proteins is regulated at a post - transcriptional level .
Under conditions mimicking the injection environment , the lipoplex - serum interaction was strongly dependent on helper lipid and ionic strength : lipoplexes prepared in 150 mM NaCl or lipoplexes with high ( greater than 33 mol % ) cholesterol were found to aggregate immediately .
Patients were followed up at 1 month and 3 months after treatment and thereafter at 3 - month intervals .
RESULTS : HER2 receptor protein was absent in adenomas and in normal gallbladder epithelium .
LRP - 1 also is implicated in integrin maturation .
Prostate cancer dissemination is difficult to detect in the clinic , and few treatment options exist for patients with advanced - stage disease .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : Both bone marrow and peripheral blood samples from 810 gastric cancer patients were collected at the Central Hospital , National Cancer Center ( Tokyo , Japan ) .
Energy metabolism of freshly harvested Ehrlich ascites tumour cells in the presence of 5 mM glucose and / or 0 . 5 mM glutamine was studied .
In synchronized cultures at the beginning of the mitotic cycle , the bulk of ATP resynthesized via glycolysis is utilized for the synthesis of biopolymers , whereas that at the end of the S - phase and in the G2 - phase is utilized for cation transport across plasma membranes .
Enoxaparine Na had no harmful effects on wound healing , and HBO therapy increased the process of wound healing .
RESULTS : The MMP / TIMP profile defined by hierarchical cluster analysis of the immunohistochemical score identifies a distinct group of colorectal cancers with poor prognosis ( log - rank test , 12 . 22 , P = 0 . 0005 ) .
CONCLUSIONS : Our study provides new candidate genes for the esophageal cancer microenvironment .
METHODS : Thirty - two male wistar rats randomly divided into four groups .
It is suggested that inhibition of tumour angiogenesis by vitamin E may be an additional mechanism for the anticancer action of vitamin E .
Somatostatin receptors were detected in peritumoral veins of various human cancer tissue specimens .
With the discovery that TGFbeta1 was a potent growth inhibitor of epithelial cells , and the identification of inactivating mutations within the TGFbeta1 signaling pathway in cancers it became clear that TGFbeta1 signaling is a tumor suppressor pathway for early stages of cancer .
Immunohistochemical analysis of nm23 - H1 gene product in node - positive lung cancer and lymph nodes .
We are increasingly aware that cellular metabolism plays a vital role in diseases such as cancer , and that p53 is an important regulator of metabolic pathways .
Our results indicate that alpha - MSH exerts modulatory effects on the activation of NF - kappa B and AP - 1 , and that it can regulate chemokine secretion in human dermal fibroblasts .
AIM : Approximately 40 - 60 % of melanomas from Caucasian populations carry activating mutations in the BRAF oncogene , with the most common being the p . Val600Glu ( V600E ) hotspot mutation in exon 15 .
The therapeutic options available in this regard include measures that : down - regulate serum free IGF - I ; suppress the synthesis of mevalonic acid and / or certain derivatives thereof ; modulate arachidonate metabolism by inhibiting 5 - lipoxygenase , 12 - lipoxygenase , or COX - 2 ; antagonize the activation of AP - 1 transcription factors ; promote the activation of PPAR - gamma transcription factors ; and that suppress angiogenesis by additional mechanisms .
The transfer of apoptosis genes to tumors constitutes one of the most promising strategies for cancer gene therapy .
Consistent with the in vitro data , GSE treatment of tumor - bearing mice led to concomitant reduction of blood vessel density and phosphorylation of mitogen - activated protein kinase .
Apoptosis induced by 1 ' - acetoxychavicol acetate in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells is associated with modulation of polyamine metabolism and caspase - 3 activation .
We have found that sanguinarine alters the morphology and reduces the viability of MG - 63 and SaOS - 2 human osteosarcoma cell lines in concentration - and time - dependent manner .
Ectopic localization of mitochondrial ATP synthase : a target for anti - angiogenesis intervention ?
These findings strongly support an enhanced role for this pathway in clear cell carcinomas by regulating angiogenesis and / or lymphangiogenesis .
KISS1 and matrix metalloproteinase - 9 ( MMP - 9 ) may play important roles as metastasis suppressor and metastasis promoter genes , respectively , in a variety of malignancies .
Silencing of ADAM - 9 in melanoma cells significantly reduced cell adhesion to fibroblasts .
The mechanism proposed is a stimulation of angiogenesis for distant dormant micrometastases .
Proto - oncogene N - myc promoter is down regulated by the Wilms ' tumor suppressor gene WT1 .
PURPOSE : To describe visual acuity and angiographic outcomes of juxtafoveal choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) treated with photodynamic therapy and verteporfin ( PDT ) .
It is thought that radiation treatment inhibits neovascularization of recipient and / or graft tissues , and this may account in part for abnormalities in wound healing associated with radiation therapy .
HTPB disrupted F - actin dynamics via downregulating RhoA activity .
We found positive Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 immunostaining in 44 . 6 % , 28 . 6 % , and 58 . 9 % of the studied primary tumors and in 63 . 6 % , 45 . 5 % , and 72 . 7 % of lymph node metastases , respectively .
GM - CSF or IL - 2 vaccines or gammaIFN decreased tumor nodules significantly ( GM - CSF 13 + / - 4 , IL - 2 14 + / - 6 vs . control 75 + / - 24 , P < 0 . 001 ) .
The same result was obtained when the model contained ER status and ER - tamoxifen interaction .
Here we show that expression of TEL in Ras - transformed NIH 3T3 cells inhibits cell growth in soft agar and in normal cultures .
To understand the biologic mechanisms of this extremely effective response , we compared by microarray the gene - expression profile of patients ' biopsies taken before and after radiation .
Finally , sections of the control and experimental flaps were analyzed histologically .
Evi - 1 associates with CtBP1 through one of the CtBP - binding consensus motifs within the region from amino acid 544 to 607 , and this association is required for the efficient inhibition of TGF - beta signaling .
Inhibition of Akt , however , does not fully attenuate p - XSC - mediated downregulation of AR activity , suggesting that inhibition of AR signaling by p - XSC does not occur solely through alterations in the phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase / Akt survival pathway .
The endostatin level in serum was determined by ELISA .
Here , we review the molecular basis of AID regulation , targeting , and initiation of CSR and SHM , as well as AID ' s role in generating chromosome translocations that contribute to lymphomagenesis .
s - VEGF was also measured before , 4 and 8 weeks after nephrectomy in 11 patients .
The results indicated that exogenous lactate was the major substrate for oxidative metabolism .
CONCLUSIONS : SREBP is activated during and plays a critical role in ECs migration .
A reduction and not an increase in tumor glucose availability could be a more appropriate strategy for the induction of energy failure in tumors .
Here , we demonstrate that Ang1 halts the ability of VEGF to induce the phosphorylation - dependent redistribution of the adhesion molecule VE - cadherin , thereby rescuing the endothelial barrier function .
IGF - 1 mRNA ( n = 10 / group ) and protein levels ( n = 6 / group ) were higher ( P less than 0 . 05 for all groups ) at 3 , 7 , and 14 days compared with controls .
The roles of miscrovascularity density ( MVD ) and VEGF expression in the progression of oral squamous cell carcinoma ( OSCC ) have been controversial .
Using immunoblot analysis , we show that AdGFPFasL ( TET ) is capable of initiating the classic Fas - mediated apoptotic pathway in DU145 cells , which includes activation of caspases - 8 , - 3 , - 7 , and - 9 , BID cleavage , cytochrome c release from mitochondria , and PARP cleavage .
Severe degeneration of the intestinal mucosa , liver parenchyma , and glomerular and tubular epithelium observed in the saline - treated MTX group was improved by L - Car treatment .
Disruption of AR - ARD1 interactions may be a potent intervention for androgen - dependent PCa therapy .
Adaptive landscapes and emergent phenotypes : why do cancers have high glycolysis ?
There was negative correction between KISS1 and MMP - 9 protein expression ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
Activated Hck and membrane - anchored Cbl are present in similar subcellular localizations and co - immunoprecipitate , suggesting that their interaction is required for subsequent ubiquitination and degradation .
TSP interacts with a number of proteases and receptors and in this way inhibits stimulation of angiogenesis .
CONCLUSIONS : ITCs circulate even in early stages of disease .
Glucose metabolism was studied using an ECAT EXACT 47 positron emission tomography ( PET ) camera and fluorine - 18 fluorodeoxyglucose ( 18F - FDG ) ; 123I - IMT uptake was measured with the triple - headed single - photon emission tomography ( SPET ) camera , MULTISPECT 3 .
TIMP2 and TIMP3 play functional role in LPA - induced invasion as negative regulators .
RESULTS : Fifty - one percent of patients with RDEB had elevated levels ( greater than 5000 pg / g ) of urinary bFGF .
Increased apoptosis of tumor cells and decreased angiogenesis in tumor tissue were also observed .
Immunohistochemistry revealed that the Hedgehog receptor Patched was localized to the tumor stroma and that B16F0 cells expressed Shh peptide .
The hypothesis was that therapy with NH ( 2 ) - terminally truncated form of galectin - 3 ( galectin - 3C ) will be efficacious for reduction in tumor growth and for inhibition of metastases .
Pigmented regions were positive for an epithelial marker , cytokeratin .
Diabetes impairs endothelial function and reparative neovascularization .
These properties allow the angiogenic switch to be evaluated in an in vitro setting .
Actin signaling controls serum response factor ( SRF ) activity via SRF interaction with the myocardin - related transcriptional activator ( MRTF ) - A and tethering to a single CArG box sequence within the CCN1 promoter .
However , although beta ( 2 ) M and MHC class I are expressed on normal hematopoietic cells , which is a potential safety concern , the monoclonal antibodies were selective to tumor cells and did not damage normal cells in vitro or in human - like mouse models .
In addition , the results of the previously tested transketolase like 1 protein ( TKTL1 ) expression were correlated to LDH5 expression .
Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays further confirmed specific c - Myc binding to galectin - 1 promoter .
We also compared the presence of EGFR and TGF - alpha and Ki - 67 index with clinical data .
In contrast , MCT 3 was the predominantly expressed isoform in normal brain .
The Wilms ' tumor 1 ( WT1 ) gene is a tumor suppressor gene that encodes a zinc - finger transcription factor .
This review focuses on the application of therapeutic angiogenesis for treating ischemic muscle disease and includes a critical evaluation of the parameters and limitations of current procedures .
Although several hypotheses for human carcinogenesis have been proposed , the specific genetic changes that cause normal cells to become cancer cells have not been identified .
Inhibition of MAP kinase kinase ( MEK ) during this sustained alphavbeta3 - dependent ERK signal blocked the formation of new blood vessels while not influencing preexisting blood vessels on the CAM .
The enhancing factors are proteins related to the family of the transforming growth factors ( TGFs ) by their molecular weight ( about 20 kd ) , their heat and acid resistance , and their sensitivity to dithiothreitol .
Measurements of respiration , CO2 and lactate production , and changes in the levels of various key metabolites of the glycolytic sequence and tricarboxylic acid cycle were made on five lines of rodent ascites tumor cells ( two strains of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells , Krebs II carcinoma , AS - 30D carcinoma , and L1210 cells ) incubated aerobically in the presence of uniformly labeled D - [ 14C ] glucose .
It is involved in a wide range of developmental and physiological processes , including serum calcium regulation .
Although only further research will determine the exact nature of VEGF ' s role after seizures , preliminary data indicate that VEGF plays a protective role after seizures .
Moreover , TKI - 31 dose - dependently suppressed HUVEC tube formation .
1 - Tetradecylpyrrolidine N - oxide ( TPNO ) , one of the most active compounds , immediately after addition to the suspension of Ehrlich cells in an ice bath , decreased the level of ATP to the same extent over the whole concentration range .
Multivariate analysis showed that this profile was independently the most significant prognostic factor ( P = 0 . 001 ) .
The induction of aerobic glycolysis is an important component of STAT3 pro - oncogenic activities , since inhibition of STAT3 tyrosine phosphorylation in the tumour cell lines down - regulates glycolysis prior to leading to growth arrest and cell death , both in vitro and in vivo .
Conditioned media from insulin - treated RPE cells were assayed for VEGF protein and capillary endothelial cell proliferation .
Their relevance in cancer prevention .
Similar methods applied to human ovarian and colon tumors confirmed endosialin expression by pericytes .
IGF - 1 - transfected cells demonstrated greater cell proliferation , stimulated angiogenesis , and decreased caspase - 3 activity after simulated ischemia and reperfusion ( P less than 0 . 05 for all groups compared with vector or cell controls ) .
The nm23 - H1 mRNA expression levels in CBM with lymph nodes metastases were lower than those in CBM without metastases ( P < 0 . 05 ) , while no significance of nm23 - H2 mRNA expression levels was found between CBM with and CBM without metastasis ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
Rat 6 cells are not transformed by treatment with the well - known carcinogens benzo [ a ] pyrene ( BP ) or N - methyl - N - nitro - N ' - nitrosoguanidine ( MNNG ) .
Our results suggest heterogeneity in angiogenic activity and vessel maturation of CC - RCC , to a large extent linked to nuclear grade , and , with probable therapeutic implications .
In addition to direct effects on mammary epithelial cells , including decreased proliferation and induction of apoptosis , CLA may exert its effects indirectly by inhibiting the differentiation of mammary stromal cells to an endothelial cell type .
Additionally , the synergistic apoptotic effects of MOG with As2O3 were detected in HL - 60 and primary AML cells , but not in normal cells , suggesting the selective toxicity of their combination to the malignant cells .
Cancer stem cells ( CSC ) are predicted to be critical drivers of tumor progression due to their self - renewal capacity and limitless proliferative potential .
The neural stem cell fate determinant TLX promotes tumorigenesis and genesis of cells resembling glioma stem cells .
Expanded polytetrafluoroethylene ( ePTFE ) vascular grafts were coated with perlecan and tested in an ovine carotid interposition model for a period of 6 weeks and assessed using light and scanning microscopy .
In this review , we focus on the use of tumor necrosis factor alpha ( TNF ) in local and systemic therapy in conjunction with chemotherapy .
The ability of LRP - 1 to regulate expression of the factors identified here suggests a role for LRP - 1 in determining blood vessel structure and in angiogenesis .
A marginally significant association was also noted between the h - MVD and patient survival ( P = . 056 ) .
Therapeutic targeting of the survivin pathway in cancer : initiation of mitochondrial apoptosis and suppression of tumor - associated angiogenesis .
The results were comparative to those of Northern blotting of the same cases .
Finally , an immunohistochemistry method ( Hypoxyprobe ) demonstrated that tissue hypoxia was present in the spleen and BM .
Crosstalk between these two pathways is also thought to contribute to progression and hormone - refractory prostate disease .
Individuals with MEN IIA should therefore undergo early prophylactic thyroidectomy once the diagnosis is confirmed by molecular genetic testing .
However , survival analysis showed that the COUP - TFII - positive group had a significantly better OS compared to COUP - TFII - negative group ( 80 . 4 % vs . 57 . 7 % , P = 0 . 0491 ) .
To study Hedgehog signaling in vivo a hind limb tumor model with the B16F0 cell line was used .
Smad1 / 5 / 8 phosphorylation was measured by Western blot analysis .
In a variety of cell types , the glycolipid - anchored urokinase receptor ( uPAR ) is colocalized pericellularly with components of the plasminogen activation system and endocytosis receptors .
A considerable number of mutant p53 proteins probably have an oncogenic activity per se and therefore actively participate in cell transformation .
Cancer metastasis : negative regulation by an invasion - suppressor complex .
In nonischemic hind limb tissues , allogeneic FM - MSC and BM - MSC injection were associated with a comparatively small amount of T lymphocyte infiltration , compared with the injection of allogeneic splenic lymphocytes .
All courses were evaluated for safety and 31 for efficacy .
There was also a significant correlation between VEGF - C and both of its receptors flt - 4 ( P = 0 . 006 ) and KDR ( P = 0 . 03 ) but no association between VEGF - B and its receptor flt - 1 ( P = 0 . 23 ) .
VEGF165 also mediated the binding of a soluble NRP1 dimer to cells expressing KDR only , confirming the formation of such complexes .
Furthermore , in support of these findings , we found that sunitinib induced a reduction in the expression of the antiapoptotic molecule Bcl - 2 as well as dephosphorylation of the proapoptotic molecule BAD , which results in the activation of BAD in these cells .
A lesion was considered subfoveal if it extended underneath the geometric center of the FAZ .
Recent reports suggest a participation of matrix metalloproteinases ( MMP ) in tumour pericyte recruitment that is consistent with the effect of certain MMPs in the development of microvasculature in embryonic development and in in vitro models of vascular remodelling .
To show that transcriptional activation of cyclin D1 is causally involved in the generation of B - cell neoplasia we have generated transgenic mice that carry a cyclin D1 gene under the transcriptional control of the E mu element .
p53 targets involved in cell - cycle arrest and apoptosis showed the same mode of regulation , indicating that , in vivo , both are activated simultaneously .
Additionally , doxycycline diminishes the proliferation of this breast cancer cell line and also decreases its gelatinolytic activity , as determined by gel zymography .
DNA of the non - tumorigenic cell hybrids transformed Rat - 1 cells to anchorage - independent proliferation as expected for the transforming human Ha - ras gene present in the donor DNA .
In the control group ( group 1 ) no further management was undertaken .
Successful FV closure was usually indicated immediately by presence of incarcerated ICG dye in the vessel adjacent to the burn site .
The results showed that betulin significantly inhibited cell viability in cervix carcinoma HeLa cells , hepatoma HepG2 cells , lung adenocarcinoma A549 cells , and breast cancer MCF - 7 cells with IC ( 50 ) values ranging from 10 to 15 microg / mL .
Inhibition by N - ( phosphonacetyl ) - L - aspartate of Ehrlich ascites tumour growth and glucose transport .
In order to explore the mechanism of action of angiostatin and its mimetics , further work needs to be done to evaluate clinical applicability , specificity , and contraindications for this class of therapeutics .
In 3 months - old mice , pigmented cells were detected in spleen and inguinal lymph nodes .
An immunohistochemical analysis revealed that Ets - 1 accumulated in migrating cells at the wound edge and returned to basal level when reendothelialization was accomplished .
The anti - apoptotic protein c - FLIP ( cellular Flice - like inhibitory protein ) , which has been shown to inhibit Fas - mediated apoptosis at the DISC , was down - regulated following AdGFPFasL ( TET ) treatment prompting us to investigate its role in inhibiting CH - 11 - induced cell death .
The antiangiogenic properties of PDT have been adapted for treatment of subfoveal choroidal neovascular membranes due to disease states such as age - related macular degeneration ( AMD ) .
In addition , hypoxia conditioning - induced tumor cell migration was reduced by the infection of lentiviral shRNA of TB4 .
Netrin - 1 up - regulation in inflammatory bowel diseases is required for colorectal cancer progression .
Furthermore , slow release administration by subcutaneous injection using an Alzet osmotic pump of a potent and bio - stable T140 analog , 4F - benzoyl - TN14003 , gave a partial , but statistically significant ( P < / = 0 . 05 ( t - test ) ) reduction in pulmonary metastasis of MDA - MB - 231 in SCID mice , even though no attempt was made to inhibit other important targets such as CCR7 .
Likewise , in diabetics without proliferation , angiogenic activity was also blocked by antibodies to PEDF .
Media supplemented with and without 10 % Oxygent were compared in all assessments .
However , the 5 - year survival rate of patients with high MMP - 9 protein expression were lower than those with low expression ( 19 vs . 4 . 7 % , p < 0 . 05 ) .
Combined mutations of p27 ( - / - ) and Men1 ( + / - ) , in contrast , did not exhibit noticeable synergistic stimulation of Rb kinase activity , cell proliferation , and tumor growth .
In this study , the aim was to investigate the effect of phenolic acids found abundantly in vegetables , i . e . gallic acid ( GA ) , caffeic acid ( CA ) and protocatechuic acid ( PCA ) , on the inhibition of gastric adenocarcinoma ( AGS ) cell metastasis .
In this article we have focused on a role of IL - 6 as a prognostic factor in several malignancies such as colorectal cancer , breast cancer , gastric cancer and pancreatic cancer .
These findings indicated that DATS inhibits tumor growth in an allograft animal model .
Metabolic alterations in a noncachectic animal tumor system .
Pancreatic endocrine tumors : expression profiling evidences a role for AKT - mTOR pathway .
The short - term response of Swiss 3T3 cells to an activator of protein kinase C also appeared to be independent of growth state , since the 50 % effective dose for PDBu inhibition of EGF binding to its receptor was approximately 7 nM for both growth conditions .
However , during each phase of the disease , low levels of TGF - beta RII were detected when compared with the hematopoietic cells of normal donors .
Our in vitro studies showed that NIH3T3 cells overexpressing BI - 1 displayed a significantly higher growth rate and formed more and larger colonies than the control cells .
Immunodetection was performed with a specific anti - bFGF mouse monoclonal antibody that was found to react with recombinant human bFGF in Western blot analysis , and to specifically neutralize the mitogenic activity of bFGF on bovine vascular endothelial cells .
Autotaxin ( ATX ) , a potent tumor motogen , augments invasive and metastatic potential of ras - transformed cells .
Activation of AP - 1 in skin was detected as early as 2 weeks following Cum - OOH or TPA exposure .
Clinical , laboratory , histopathological , and pharmacological evidence support the notion that the coagulation system , which is activated in most cancer patients , plays an important role in tumor biology .
OPN promoted EC migration in vitro ; and VPF / VEGF induction of alphavbeta3 was accompanied by increased EC migration toward OPN .
Since AP - 1 and NF - kappa B are key elements in controlling interleukin - 8 ( IL - 8 ) transcription , human fibroblasts were treated with alpha - MSH and IL - 1 beta for 24 hours , and cytokine levels in the supernatants were measured by ELISA .
RESULTS : Bevacizumab treatment was followed by reductions in retinal hemorrhage , exudation , and edema .
In in vivo experiments , the metastasis and survival of tumor - engrafted mice were monitored .
Wnt signaling , stem cells , and the cellular origin of breast cancer .
Morphogenesis of embryonic CNS vessels .
In addition , 15d - PGJ ( 2 ) suppressed tumour necrosis factor - alpha - induced - COX - 2 expression , confirming the reciprocal correlation between COX - 2 and PPARgamma .
To investigate this possibility , we studied the influence of bovine lactoferrin on Fas - mediated apoptosis with regard to expression of Fas , activation of caspase - 8 and caspase - 3 , and DNA fragmentation in the colon mucosa of AOM - treated rats .
These results define a novel function of Evi - 1 as a repressor of signaling components of TGF - beta .
Furthermore , it was shown that thiol - containing antioxidants completely blocked MOG - induced mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss and subsequent cell apoptosis , while the inhibition of apoptosis by benzyloxy - carbonyl - Val - Ala - Asp - fluoromethylketone only partially attenuated mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss , indicating that MOG - induced redox imbalance is an early event upstream to mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss and caspase - 3 activation .
Given that PLCbeta3 is typically known as an effector of heterotrimeric G - proteins , our data demonstrate a unique crosstalk between the G - protein and receptor tyrosine kinase ( RTK ) axes and reveal a novel molecular mechanism of VEGF signaling and , thus , angiogenesis .
To investigate the dose - dependent effects of APC protein in suppressing intestinal tumorigenesis , we constructed mutant mice carrying hypomorphic Apc alleles Apc ( neoR ) and Apc ( neoF ) whose expression levels were reduced to 20 % and 10 % of the wild type , respectively .
Thrombospondin ( TSP ) - 1 , a potent angiogenesis inhibitor , has been shown to exert different biological functions on various cell types .
Collectively , the experiments define the role of Ang - 2 during tumor angiogenesis and establish a better rationale for combination therapies involving Ang - 2 manipulatory therapies .
In summary , the angiogenic property of oral cancer cells is mediated by many factors in addition to VEGF and the functional status of p53 .
HIF - 2alpha expression in human fetal paraganglia and neuroblastoma : relation to sympathetic differentiation , glucose deficiency , and hypoxia .
The modulation of platelet and endothelial cell adhesion to vascular graft materials by perlecan .
A preponderance of work has been focused on the molecular mechanisms underlying this effect , with the expectation that a mechanistic understanding may lead to novel therapeutic approaches .
TTF - 1 staining was present in 31 of the 40 ( 78 % ) metastatic lung carcinomas , but in only 1 of the 31 ( 3 % ) metastatic nonpulmonary carcinomas ( a small - cell carcinoma of the sinonasal tract ) .
We used a cellular model of tumor invasion to investigate the effect of activated platelets on the human ovarian cancer cell line , SKOV3 .
Inhibition of PG synthesis was without effect upon desensitization , demonstrating that the effect was not agonist - induced .
Analysis of promoter hypermethylation of the APC gene was also carried out using methylation - specific PCR ( MS - PCR ) .
At the cellular level , the result is hypoxia which impairs wound healing .
However , the maximum decrease approached 100 % in stationary cultures versus approximately 75 % in growing cells .
DLC1 protein level is elevated in more than 90 % of human breast tumors .
Dopamine pretreatment increases the translocation and colocalization of Src - homology - 2 - domain - containing protein tyrosine phosphatase ( SHP - 2 ) with D2DR at the cell surface .
Sequence analysis of CDC4 / FBXW7 was carried out on gastric carcinoma cell lines and xenografts .
To delineate the roles that oxygen and fibroblast growth factors ( FGFs ) play in the process of angiogenesis from the embryonic aorta , we cultured mouse embryonic aorta explants ( thoracic level to lateral vessels supplying the mesonephros and metanephros ) in a three - dimensional type I collagen gel matrix .
In recent years the family of ADAM proteases has been ascribed important roles in these processes .
Strong CXCR4 expression was significantly associated with lymph node metastases ( P = 0 . 028 ) and higher stages III / IV ( P = 0 . 047 ) , and further tended to be correlated with a reduced 5 - year survival rate ( 42 . 6 % vs . 53 . 9 % ; P = 0 . 1 ) .
Regulation of thrombospondin - 1 by natural and synthetic progestins in human breast cancer cells .
2G7 did not inhibit MDA - 231 primary tumor or metastases formation , nor did it stimulate NK cell - mediated cytotoxicity in beige NK - deficient nude mice .
Loss of p21 completely abolished the cell cycle arrest function of p53R172P and accelerated tumor onset in Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) mice .
Relationship between of blood flow , glucose metabolism , protein synthesis , glucose and ATP content in experimentally - induced glioma ( RG1 2 . 2 ) of rat brain .
The pigment epithelium of the retina ( RPE ) is derived from the optic cup and is essential for function and development of the eye .
9E3 / CEF4 was slightly mitogenic for CEF , causing a doubling of [ 3H ] thymidine uptake when added to serum - starved CEF . 9E3 / CEF4 was found associated not only with the cell and in the culture medium of Rous sarcoma virus - transformed CEF but also with the extracellular matrix .
These studies also show their clinicalpathological features of the cancers with human Paraffin - embedded tumor tissue samples .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : Porous PLGA microspheres having primary amine groups on the surface were prepared using an oil - in - water ( O / W ) single emulsion method using Pluronic F - 127 as an extractable porogen .
AKT2 is a downstream target of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 ( Grm1 ) .
Cell lines were established from tumor and metastases and kept in culture for more than 2 months .
Trib1 and Evi1 were up - regulated due to retroviral insertions , and coexpression of these genes significantly accelerated the onset of Hoxa9 / Meis1 - induced AML , suggesting that Trib1 and Evi1 are the key collaborators .
The antisense oligomers complementary to the ER suppressed proliferation and transformed phenotypes of K12V cells .
We also found an increase of tumor growth and lung metastasis count in TB4 - Tg mice as compared to wildtype mice .
Nineteen ( 79 % ) putative NK - cell lymphomas expressed perforin , and all 24 cases expressed granzyme B9 and TIA1 .
TB4 expression in B16F10 cells was increased by hypoxia conditioning in a time - dependent manner .
However , no published data are available concerning the biological and clinical significance of COUP - TFII expression in colorectal cancer .
These inhibitors are directed towards the receptors of VEGF or intracellular substrates for the receptors .
RESULTS : We detected only wild - type nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 mRNA .
Unexpectedly , cells expressing both Ras and TEL grew as aggregates .
It suggests that TB4 could be a hypoxia responsive regulator to control tumor cell migration in angiogenesis and tumor metastasis .
Many of these alterations parallel those observed in human patients suffering from cancer cachexia making canine lymphoma a potential model for further study of the pathogenesis and therapy of cancer cachexia .
A putative progestin - response element was identified in the human TSP - 1 promoter , which is consistent with the hypothesis that a progestin - PR complex might directly regulate transcription of the TSP - 1 gene in human cells .
To address this , the Severe Chronic Neutropenia International Registry ( SCNIR ) used its large database of chronic neutropenia patients treated with G - CSF to determine the incidence of malignant myeloid transformation in the two disorders , and its relationship to treatment and to other patient characteristics .
Changes in c - FLIP ( L ) and cFLIPs levels were observed in some but not all the cell lines studied following glucose deprivation .
Thrombospondin is a potent inhibitor of angiogenesis and might therefore be important in controlling tumour growth .
METHODS : Preoperative serum was collected from 107 gastric cancer patients and 33 normal controls .
FVIIa - induced cell survival correlated with the activation of Akt and was inhibited markedly by the specific PI3 - kinase inhibitor , LY294002 .
We previously showed that disruption of TGF - beta signaling by dominant - negative TGF - beta type II receptor in a diffuse - type gastric carcinoma model accelerated tumor growth through induction of tumor angiogenesis by decreased expression of the anti - angiogenic factor thrombospondin ( TSP ) - 1 .
Further deletions reveal a sequence within the carboxy - terminal domain that is responsible for in vivo bundle formation .
By ruling out cell fusion , we clearly demonstrate the existence of an adult hemangioblast , but the differentiation of marrow stem cells toward the endothelial lineage is an extremely rare event .
Cells were perifused in the presence of 5 mM glucose , 0 . 5 mM glutamine or 5 mM glucose and 0 . 5 mM glutamine .
The connection between collagen type VII deficiency , increased collagenase , and squamous cell carcinoma is not understood .
In contrast , less than 5 % of the DNA was fragmented in cells incubated with GM - CSF plus FBS or GM - CSF alone .
INTRODUCTION : Increased angiogenesis in bone marrow is one of the characteristics of chronic myeloid leukaemia ( CML ) , a clonal myeloproliferative disorder that expresses a chimeric bcr / abl protein .
A similar ser120 - gly mutation in NME1 has been found in human neuroblastoma , suggesting that mutation in this region may be a general phenomenon related to tumor progression .
CONCLUSION : We present initial results demonstrating anti - inflammatory effects of spironolactone .
These results suggest that desensitization of certain agonist - induced inositol phospholipid responses in ras - transformed cells is a consequence of increased cell proliferation and associated amplification in C - kinase activity and is an indirect consequence of transformation by ras .
CONCLUSION : This angiogenesis assay based on human fat tissue uses three - dimensionally intact human tissue .
However FOXO3a induction has little effect on cell proliferation , indicating that FOXO3a or its downstream activity is deregulated in the cytotoxic drug resistant breast cancer cells .
A marked coronary angiogenesis is known to occur with chronic bradycardia .
This assay allows exploration of angiogenesis in fat tissue .
Two major type IV collagenolytic metalloproteinases exhibiting molecular weights of 64 , 000 and 88 , 000 , respectively , were detected by this method .
These results reveal upregulation of an endogenous angiogenesis inhibitor during multi step tumorigenesis and identify enhanced stromal TSP - 2 expression as a novel host anti - tumor defense mechanism .
Reconstitution of MCF - 7 cells by stable transfection of CASP - 3 cDNA restores all these defects and results in an extensive apoptosis after cisplatin treatment .
Treatment of wild - type ( wt ) p53 ALL cells ( EU - 3 cell line ) with doxorubicin caused accumulation of p53 , resulting in dramatic down - regulation of survivin , depletion of cells in G ( 2 ) / M , and apoptosis ( increased sub - G ( 1 ) compartment ) .
Similarly , perivascular inflammatory T - cells expressed more antiapoptotic proteins in irreversible PHT ( p less than 0 . 01 ) .
Patients with low or absence expressing SPARC had significantly worse overall survival and disease - free survival in a Single Factor Analysis ; Cox Regression Analysis , SPARC emerged as an overall survival and disease - free survival independent prognostic factor for colon cancer .
FVIIa - induced antiapoptotic effect was dependent on its proteolytic activity and TF but independent of factor Xa and thrombin .
Therapeutic angiogenesis is the biological agents or bioactive material to stimulate the growth of new blood vessels .
The selective antimetastatic agents p - ( 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 1 - triazeno ) benzoic acid potassium salt ( DM - COOK ) , 5 - ( 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 1 - triazeno ) imidazole - 4 - carboxamide ( DTIC ) and ( + / - ) 1 , 2 - di ( 3 , 5 - dioxopiperazin - 1 - yl ) propane ( ICRF - 159 ) have been shown to markedly depress the formation of spontaneous hematogenous metastases in mice bearing s . c .
Furthermore , cyclopamine reduced tumor blood vessel permeability to FITC labeled dextran while having no effect on normal blood vessels .
Treatment of ovarian cancer cell lines with recombinant LL - 37 stimulated proliferation , chemotaxis , invasion and matrix metalloproteinase expression .
Similar results were obtained with phVEGF121 , phVEGF165 , and phVEGF189 , which suggests that these isoforms are biologically equivalent with respect to in vivo angiogenesis .
AIM : To determine whether a variety of ciliary body tumours synthesise opticin to characterise further its role in ciliary body health and disease .
In this study , we examined whether all - trans - retinoic acid ( all - trans - RA ) and other retinoids , which exhibit antitumor activity in vitro and in vivo , affect the collagenolytic activity of metastatic rat 13762NF mammary adenocarcinoma cells .
Here , we show that natural and synthetic progestins also induce thrombospondin - 1 ( TSP - 1 ) mRNA and protein in T47 - D and BT - 474 breast cancer cells .
The relationship between this unique type of EBV and NPC has yet to be established .
Furthermore , both PLD1 and PLD2 transformants , but not vector - transfectants , induced undifferentiated sarcoma when transplanted into nude mice .
Examination of checkpoint pathway activation upstream of Cdc25a revealed Erbb2 activation did not alter Ataxia Telangiectasia and Rad3 - related / Ataxia Telangiectasia Mutated activity but increased inhibitory phosphorylation of Chk1 - Ser ( 280 ) .
Indeed , Ang1 promotes the activation of mDia through RhoA , resulting in the association of mDia with Src .
In vitro experiments confirmed that an increase in glucose availability induced Akt phosphorylation under reoxygenated conditions and consequently up - regulated HIF - 1alpha translation .
A major step forwards in the treatment of solid tumors is the recognition of the tumor - associated vasculature as an important target for therapy .
Blockage of the Akt pathway attenuated CREB activation , and a decrease in CREB expression reduced cellular migration / invasion and activity of MMPs .
Immunostaining data are interpreted with computer image analysis and reported as stain index .
bFGF loaded PLGA - HP microspheres showed sustained release profiles of bFGF in vitro , demonstrating reversible and specific binding of bFGF to immobilized heparin .
PURPOSE : To report on bevacizumab treatment for radiation retinopathy affecting the macula .
Histological evaluation included amount of fibrous and fat encapsulation , connective tissue , foreign - body reaction , neovascularization , hemorrhage , necrosis , and exudate .
In transgenic embryos , RPE cells proliferated in the anterior part of the eye and near the optic nerve .
RASSF1C down - regulates several pro - apoptotic and tumor suppressor genes and up - regulates several growth promoting genes in breast cancer cells .
Numerous products from fruits , vegetable and traditional medicinal plants have been described which can suppress TNF expression and TNF signaling but their clinical potential is yet uncertain .
Here , we demonstrate that aglycon of rhizochalin ( AglRhz ) from the Rhizochalina incrustata induces AMP - activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) phosphorylation , and thereby inhibits mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) - p70S6 kinase - extracellular signal - regulated kinase ( ERK ) signaling and activator protein 1 ( AP - 1 ) activity via phosphorylation of Raptor in HT - 29 cells .
These drugs , however , exhibit severe side effects and are expensive .
The expression of Cbl at the plasma membrane targets both Hck and itself for ubiquitination and degradation , requiring an intact RING finger .
14 - 3 - 3zeta might be used as prognostic biomarkers for NSCLC .
TGFbeta1 was initially identified in culture media from transformed cells as part of a factor that could produce a transformed phenotype in a nontransformed cell line .
We herein report the effects of novel developed material , collagen - poly glycolic acid fiber hybrid matrix , being used together with basic fibroblast growth factor to promote wound healing of full - thickness skin defects on the back of type 2 diabetic Lepr ( db ) mice .
Mutations in the genes encoding the three other succinate dehydrogenase subunits ( SDHB , SDHC and SDHD ) have been identified in patients affected by familial or ' apparently sporadic ' paraganglioma and / or pheochromocytoma , an autosomal inherited cancer - susceptibility syndrome .
Q - RT - PCR was a useful method to detect the mRNA levels of nm23 gene in buccal carcinoma .
In test group , the external maxillary artery bundle was passed through the marrow cavity of the bone .
In in vivo study , liposomal honokiol significantly inhibited the tumor - associated lymphangiogenesis and metastasis in Lewis lung carcinoma model .
Medical therapy for intermittent claudication .
This review will discuss the regulation of expression of IGF - 1 , IGF - 1R , and IGF binding proteins in the vasculature and summarize evidence implicating involvement of this system in vascular diseases .
The proliferative response of bovine retinal capillary endothelial cells to EGF is dependent upon attaching the cells to a matrix of fibronectin .
Angiogenesis defines the many steps involved in the growth and migration of endothelial cell - derived blood vessels .
Serum vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) levels were measured using the enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) kit .
Pro / antioxidant status and AP - 1 transcription factor in murine skin following topical exposure to cumene hydroperoxide .
Cotreatment of cell lines with a hormone and its specific antagonist blocked the effect of the hormone .
This review summarises the evidence from 8 pivotal trials of cilostazol involving over 2000 patients with intermittent claudication treated for up to 6 months .
Hypothesis : Induced angiogenesis after surgery in premenopausal node - positive breast cancer patients is a major underlying reason why adjuvant chemotherapy works particularly well for those patients .
In tissues with a normally high metabolic turnover such as skeletal and cardiac muscle , even mild ischemia causes hypoxia , acidosis , and depressed function ( contractility ) and eventually threatens myocyte viability and organ function .
In addition , silencing of S6K1 induced apoptosis accompanied by a decrease in the phosphorylation of BAD and Bcl - 2 , similar to that observed with sunitinib treatment .
By introducing a cDNA library derived from rat embryonic fibroblast cells , we isolated several morphologically flat revertants of rat 3Y1 cells transformed by the E6 and E7 genes of human papillomavirus type 18 ( HPV18 ) .
Some potentially promising prognostic , diagnostic , and therapeutic modalities for tumor angiogenesis and metastatic disease are also discussed .
To investigate this hypothesis , we isolated primary mouse embryonic fibroblast ( MEF ) lines from Fh1 - deficient mice .
These results indicate carbohydrate metabolism is altered in dogs with lymphoma .
In contrast , no leukemia was observed with a myb IRES virus , with spliced vectors containing v - erbA alone or v - erbA in combination with v - myb , nor with erbA IRES and erbA / myb IRES viruses produced in the absence of helper virus .
Neoplastic progression of human colorectal cancer is associated with overexpression of the stromelysin - 3 and BM - 40 / SPARC genes .
High - mobility group A2 protein modulates hTERT transcription to promote tumorigenesis .
Reversal of the malignant phenotype of ovarian cancer A2780 cells through transfection with wild - type PTEN gene .
Angiogenic activity of the aqueous humor was quantified by measuring its effect on the migration of capillary endothelial cells .
Further tumour inhibition studies showed that STX243 was also active against MCF - 7 paclitaxel - resistant tumours .
The stimulatory effect of mast cells on migration is specific for capillary endothelial cells .
High density of somatostatin receptors in veins surrounding human cancer tissue : role in tumor - host interaction ?
MMP - 2 is involved in the early steps of angiogenesis leading to local dissolution of basement membrane collagen and migration of the activated endothelial cells .
AIM : To determine the expression of HER2 and bradykinin B ( 1 ) receptors ( B ( 1 ) R ) in the two pathogenic models of gallbladder cancer : the metaplasia - dysplasia - carcinoma and the adenoma - carcinoma pathways .
The combination diagnosis / treatment device should be useful in optimizing FV treatment and in refining and evaluating the efficacy of DEP in future clinical trials .
[ Effect of osteopontin silencing by lentivirus - mediated delivery of siRNA on glioma cell invasion and apoptosis ] .
To better understand the activity of cediranib against VEGFR - 3 and its associated signaling events compared with its activity against VEGFR - 2 , we used the receptor - specific ligands VEGF - E and VEGF - C156S .
Chicken embryo fibroblasts and hamster BHK cells transformed by Rous sarcoma virus ( RSV ) release in their culture media growth factors which enhance markedly anchorage - independent colony formation in gelified medium , at the restrictive temperature ( 41 degrees 5 C ) , of chicken embryo fibroblasts ( CEF ) infected by RSV mutants with a ts mutation of the src gene .
This study shows that angiogenin expression is up - regulated in the cytoplasmic and nuclear compartments in in situ carcinoma and invasive carcinoma compared with normal breast tissue and that angiogenin expression in invasive carcinomas is significantly positively associated with high tumour grade ( p = 0 . 03 ) , positive oestrogen receptor ( ER ) status ( p = 0 . 01 ) , HIF - 1 alpha ( p = 0 . 001 ) and DEC 1 ( p = 0 . 001 ) , but not with patient age ( p = 0 . 8 ) , tumour size ( p = 0 . 25 ) , lymph node status ( p = 0 . 69 ) , epidermal growth factor receptor ( p = 0 . 56 ) or microvessel density ( p = 0 . 32 ) .
These data suggested that inhibition of p53 - dependent apoptosis may depend on the transcriptional repression function of the 55 - kDa protein , which appears to be regulated be phosphorylation at the carboxy terminus .
p - XSC also decreases Akt phosphorylation as well as Akt - specific phosphorylation of the AR .
Exposure of wild - type primary mouse cerebral endothelial cells to the CD47 ligand thrombospondin 1 ( TSP - 1 ) induced an increasing amount of cell death , whereas cytotoxicity was significantly decreased in cerebral endothelial cells derived from CD47 knockout mice .
Hypoxia also increased VEGF production by SCC lines , which was inhibited by treatment with SB203580 .
However , development of consumption coagulopathy characterized by progression from hypercoagulable state to disseminated intravascular coagulation has also been found in several cases .
CONCLUSIONS : Insulin increases VEGF mRNA and secreted protein levels in RPE cells through enhanced transcription of the VEGF gene .
Emergence of the RUNX1 mutations was detected at diagnosis or before the acquisition of trisomy 21 during disease progression .
These findings confirm that cellular immunity is significantly stimulated by IL - 2 only during clinical benefit .
Genes most significantly represented in this program are those with roles in cell growth and proliferation > protein synthesis > gene expression > cell death > cell cycle .
This ectopic ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis and is inhibited by angiostatin over a wide pH range .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : To evaluate the antiangiogenic activity of EPOX , we did cell viability , cell cycle , tube formation assay in vitro , and Matrigel plug assay in vivo .
[ An experimental study on angiogenesis of non - vascularized autogenous bone graft with vascular bundle implantation ]
PURPOSE : Tumor fibroblasts ( TF ) have been suggested to play an essential role in the complex process of tumor - stroma interactions and tumorigenesis .
TEL bound sequences in the stromelysin - 1 promoter and repressed the promoter in transient - expression assays , suggesting that it is a direct target for TEL - mediated regulation .
The importance of this tumor suppressor in the mechanisms of carcinogenesis is beyond question as the inactivation of ARF suppressor activity leads to the rapid growth of neoplasia .
Multiple myeloma , an incurable plasma cell malignancy , is characterized by altered cellular metabolism and resistance to apoptosis .
PURPOSE : Control of the natural course of subretinal neovascularization ( SRNV ) in age - related macular degeneration ( AMD ) is difficult .
N - myc has proapoptotic functions , yet it acts as an oncogene in neuroblastoma .
PURPOSE : We prepared tumor endothelium targeted cRGD - modified heparin derivative ( cRGD - HL ) by coupling heparin - lithocholic acid ( HL ) with cRGDyK , and evaluated inhibition effects of cRGD - HL on angiogenesis and tumor growth .
Interestingly , we find that the deletion of miR - BHRF1 - 2 reduced the expression level of miR - BHRF1 - 3 and possibly that of miR - BHRF1 - 1 , demonstrating that the expression of one miRNA can potentiate the expression of other miRNAs located in the same cluster .
Converging studies from many investigators indicate that RUNX1 has a critical role in the correct maintenance of essential cellular functions during embryonic development and after birth .
BACKGROUND : SPARC ( secreted protein , acidic and rich in cysteine ) is closely related with the progress , invasion and metastasis of malignant tumor and angiogenesis .
Clinicopathologic data ( sex , age , Dukes ' stage , differentiation grade , survival status ) , p53 status , and PCNA status were statistically analyzed for association with topo I protein expression .
Cediranib ( RECENTIN ; AZD2171 ) is an inhibitor of VEGF signaling that has been shown in experimental models to prevent VEGF - A - induced angiogenesis and primary tumor growth , yet the effects of cediranib on VEGF receptor ( VEGFR ) - 3 - mediated endothelial cell function and lymphangiogenesis are unknown .
Lewis lung carcinoma , with a mechanism unrelated to cytotoxicity for tumor cells .
We therefore set out to determine whether the few cells that express vGPCR in established tumors represent an appropriate therapeutic target for the treatment of patients with preexisting Kaposi ' s sarcoma .
The cell death pathway initiated by survivin targeting was mapped with respect to cytochrome c release , changes in mitochondrial transmembrane potential , and apoptosome requirements using mouse embryonic fibroblasts deficient in Apaf - 1 or caspase - 9 .
Clusterin expression level depends on cell proliferation state , and we recently showed that its over - expression inhibited cell cycle progression of SV40 - immortalized human prostate epithelial cells PNT2 and PNT1a .
Levels of RNA for tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases ( TIMP - 1 , TIMP - 2 ) were relatively constant , suggesting independent regulation of type IV collagenases and their inhibitors .
Malignant melanoma is characterized by frequent metastasis , however , specific changes that regulate this process have not been clearly delineated .
Thalidomide had no direct effect on endothelial cells .
In addition , the double staining was also used to determine VEGF - C expression in TAMs .
Changes in plasminogen activator inhibitor - 1 levels in non - small cell lung cancer .
Erbb2 ablation reduced the UV - induced activation of PI3K while inhibition of PI3K / Akt increased UV - induced S - phase arrest .
The insulin - conditioned RPE cell media stimulated capillary endothelial cell proliferation , an effect that was completely blocked by anti - VEGF neutralizing antibody .
The degree of corneal infiltration , ulceration , corneal clouding , hypopyon , conjunctivitis , neovascularization , and corneal perforation was monitored over a 24 - day period , as well as recultivation and resistance to fluconazole of the C . albicans pathogen .
RESULTS : Twenty - one eyes had juxtafoveal CNV .
Paradoxically , OSM can also suppress the growth of normal cells and certain tumor - derived cell lines .
Blockade of PAF - R by WEB - 2170 , a PAF - R antagonist , abolished the CD154 - dependent motility , indicating a role for PAF synthesized after CD154 stimulation in renal carcinoma cell motility .
Bone marrow - derived mesenchymal stem cells ( BM - MSC ) have been demonstrated to be an attractive therapeutic cell source for tissue regeneration and repair .
The animals in groups 3 and 4 also received L - NIL and saline respectively without surgical procedure .
Correspondingly , Ang - 2 manipulatory therapies have been shown to exert protumorigenic as well as antitumorigenic effects .
However , it is unclear whether sunitinib acts only through an antiangiogenic mechanism or whether it may also directly target tumor cells .
Co - expression of NRP1 and ( VEGFR - 2 ) KDR on the surface of endothelial cells ( EC ) enhances VEGF165 binding to KDR and EC chemotaxis in response to VEGF165 .
RESULTS : There was relatively wide variation in the expression of alpha - SMA with the percentage of the area from 0 . 68 to 28 . 15 % ( mean 8 . 48 + / - 5 . 40 % ) .
Under this condition , the secondary functions of effected cells are likely to be impaired , and a new metabolic equilibrium is established , determined by the level of cross - diffusion and degree of hypoxia .
This was confirmed with chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments of the human c - Met promoter , as well as by the ability of adenovirally expressed Mitf to modulate endogenous c - Met protein levels in melanocytes .
Nicked { beta } 2 - glycoprotein I binds angiostatin 4 . 5 ( plasminogen kringle 1 - 5 ) and attenuates its antiangiogenic property .
VEGF regulates angiogenesis , which is also a fundamental event in the process of tumor growth and metastatic dissemination .
Islet endothelial activation and oxidative stress gene expression is reduced by IL - 1Ra treatment in the type 2 diabetic GK rat .
This analysis revealed a higher expression of vessel maturation and stabilisation factors ( placental growth factor , PDGFB1 , angiopoietin 1 ) in CC - RCC with high MVD , a group of CC - RCC highly enriched in low nuclear grade CC - RCC , with low ECP % .
Suppressing PTTG expression by siRNA decreased cell motility in both PTTG - HA / EC9706 and KYSE150 cells .
A 71 - year - old woman was admitted to our hospital because of breathlessness .
In this study , we investigated the effects of caffeine on HIF - 1 protein accumulation and on VEGF and IL - 8 expression in the human colon cancer cell line HT29 under hypoxic conditions .
We have previously described a group of genes that is rapidly up - regulated in these cells following dexamethasone ( Dex ) treatment .
To examine whether IFI16 induction might be extended to other proinflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) - alpha , we used the strategy of the RNA interference to knock down IFI16 expression , and analyze the capability of TNF - alpha to stimulate intercellular adhesion molecule - 1 ( ICAM - 1 or CD54 ) expression in the absence of functional IFI16 .
Brick1 is an essential regulator of actin cytoskeleton required for embryonic development and cell transformation .
The E - cadherin / alpha - , beta - , gamma - catenin complex has an invasion - suppressor function as evidenced by transfections either with sense cDNA encoding these molecules or with antisense cDNA inhibiting their expression .
Our results showed that HeLa cells demonstrated the highest sensitivity to paclitaxel , whereas CaSki cells showed the lowest .
PURPOSE : Recent studies of cancer metastasis have focused on the role of premetastatic gene expression and circulating tumor cells .
We further investigated the mechanism of anticancer activity by betulin , using HeLa cells as an experimental model .
To our knowledge , this is the first study to evaluate the effects of 2ME2 in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
A greater accumulation of peroxidative products ( thiobarbituric acid - reactive substances ) , inflammation and decreased levels of GSH and total antioxidant reserves were also observed in the skin of DMBA - Cum - OOH - exposed mice .
The elevated fibrinogen level may be associated with invasiveness and lymphatic metastasis .
Lymph node metastasis is one of the most important prognostic factors in various types of cancers , including endometrial cancer .
The primary results indicated ( i ) positive results of in situ hybridization are presence of granules or masses in the cytoplasm ; ( ii ) the less expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA , the higher metastatic rate of the human hepatocellular carcinoma ( P < 0 . 05 ) ; ( iii ) expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA dose not correlate with some other factors such as tumor size and the background of other liver diseases .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : Human colon carcinoma ( HT29 ) and murine squamous carcinoma ( SCCVII ) clonal cell lines expressing varying levels of VEGF were established and their response to vandetanib was assessed in tissue culture and as solid tumors .
By using mass spectrometric analysis , we identified that PTTG up - regulated S100A4 and galectin - 1 secretion and down - regulated tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 2 secretion to the culture media .
KISS1 methylation and expression as tumor stratification biomarkers and clinical outcome prognosticators for bladder cancer patients .
N - ( Phosphonacetyl ) - L - aspartate ( PALA ) suppressed the growth of Ehrlich ascites tumour cells in vivo in a dose - dependent manner .
Both models yield significantly reduced placental weights and an asymmetrically growth - restricted fetus , and display altered maternal hormone concentrations , indicative of an impaired trophoblast capacity .
Chemokine receptor CXCR4 expression , function , and clinical implications in gastric cancer .
During the further course no deterioration of the condition was observed .
These findings reveal a previously unrecognized regulatory role for Ang II on sFlt - 1 expression in murine and human pregnancy and suggest that elevated sFlt - 1 levels in preeclampsia may be caused by a dysregulation of the local renin / angiotensin system .
Because of the imperfect association of nuclear grade and ECP % or MVD , CC - RCC was also grouped based on low / high MVD and ECP % .
Thus , pVHL appears to participate in the elimination of misprocessed proteins , such as those arising in the cell due to the unavailability of glucose or to other stresses .
The antibody also blocks ligand - stimulated activation of PDGFRbeta and downstream signaling molecules , including Akt and MAPK p42 / 44 , in tumor cells .
p53 does so through the induction of genes leading to growth arrest or apoptosis .
RESULTS : 2ME2 exhibited antiproliferative and cytotoxic effects in a panel of five head and neck squamous cell carcinoma cell lines in the 0 . 5 to 10 micromol / L range , including induction of G2 - M blockade , caspase - 3 / 7 activation , and apoptosis at 48 hours .
ICAM - 3 also increased Akt phosphorylation , which caused an increase in cellular migration / invasion and MMP activities .
Inhibition of glucose metabolism enhanced killing of myeloid leukemia U937 , cervical carcinoma HeLa , and breast carcinoma MCF - 7 cells upon death receptor ligation .
Our results show CWR22Rv - 1 and PC3 tumor cell lines to be more metastatic than LAPC - 4 , which in turn disseminates more readily than LAPC - 9 .
Aberrant angiogenesis leads to a variety of diseases , such as ischemia and cancer .
On the mechanism of glycolysis stimulation by neutral detergents in 3T3 and Ehrlich ascites tumor cells .
RESULTS : The percentage of patients being bone metastases free at 12 mo was 60 % in the zoledronic acid and 10 % in the control group ( p less than 0 . 0005 ) , while the percentages at 18 mo were 20 % and 5 % respectively ( p = 0 . 0002 ) .
Appearance of tumorous phenotypes in goldfish erythrophores transfected with ras , src , and myc oncogenes and spontaneous differentiation of the transformants in vitro .
In addition , ethanol exposure decreased expression of endothelial VEGF receptor - 2 , as well as VEGF receptor - 2 phosphorylation in vitro .
The area covered by spread EC was dramatically enlarged , accompanied by an increase in focal contacts and altered organization of actin filaments .
Invasion of adjacent organs was more frequent in the RSCM group than in the RSCB group and the Ki - 67 labeling index of the tumors was significantly higher in the former group .
Basic fibroblast growth factor : a missing link between collagen VII , increased collagenase , and squamous cell carcinoma in recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa .
CONCLUSIONS : These results suggest that , despite correlation of nm23 - H1 allelic deletions with colon cancers associated with poor prognosis , nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 alleles do not directly mediate metastasis suppression in colon carcinoma .
RESULTS : Survivin expression was noted in 30 ( 81 % ) of breast carcinomas , and in normal breast tissue , in nuclei , and cytoplasm .
Airway angiogenesis and microvascular remodeling are known features of bronchial asthma , but the mechanisms of these structural alterations are just beginning to be elucidated .
Prolonged silencing of both MCTs reduced viability by 75 % individually and 92 % in combination , as measured by both phenotypic and flow cytometric analyses .
3 - Chloromethylthiochromone - 1 , 1 - dioxide was observed to be a potent inhibitor of Ehrlich ascites carcinoma growth and a moderate inhibitor of P - 388 lymphocytic leukemia growth at 10 mg / kg / day .
A specific histone deacetylase ( HDAc ) inhibitor , trichostatin A ( TSA ) , alleviates Evi - 1 - mediated repression of TGF - beta signaling , suggesting that HDAc is involved in transcriptional repression by Evi - 1 .
Attenuating galectin - 1 expression by siRNA constrained PTTG - HA / EC9706 cell motility ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Forty - seven specimens resected from patients with stage II and III squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) of the esophagus were studied using immunohistochemical staining .
Histopathological development of gastric tumors induced by N - methyl - N ' - nitro - N - nitrosoguanidine in rats .
It suggests that osteopontin plays an important role in human glioma progression .
These data support a new model for how tumor cells trigger metastasis by perturbing pericyte - endothelial cell - cell interactions .
The aim of the study was to investigate the potential influence of thalidomide on the several steps of angiogenesis , using in vitro models .
Ang - 2 - deficient tumor vessels had higher pericyte coverage indices .
Intraperitoneal administration of 2G7 resulted in a marked increase in mouse spleen NK cell activity .
Vasodilator - stimulated phosphoprotein is involved in stress - fiber and membrane ruffle formation in endothelial cells .
Fas - signaling and effects on receptor tyrosine kinase signal transduction in human breast epithelial cells .
The heterogeneity of nm23 - H1 gene product expression between primary cancers and metastatic lymph nodes was observed in 41 . 3 % .
These are exciting new functions of vitamins that nobody could have predicted only a few years ago .
Importantly , Bax and Bak were rapidly translocated to the mitochondria 30 min after betulin treatment .
Experiments showed that mutant embryos and mutant cells in culture experienced genome instability , as do cells in FA patients .
Restored DCC expression in the cancer cell lines in the absence of netrin - 1 induced apoptosis .
In each experimental situation , the casts provided a valuable three dimensional representation of the newly formed blood vessels and permitted subclassification of the vessels within normal and proliferating vascular networks .
Both HKa and D5 decrease the speed of BPAE cell migration and alter the morphology in live , time - lapse microscopy after stimulation with S1P or VEGF .
As a result of paracrine signal transmission , the effects of Hedgehog signaling most profoundly influence the stromal cells that constitute the tumor microenvironment .
Correspondingly , Fh1 - deficient benign murine renal cysts and an advanced human HLRCC - related renal cell carcinoma manifested a prominent and progressive increase in the expression of HIF - alpha target genes and in genes known to be relevant to tumorigenesis and metastasis .
The induction occurs within 1 h from FGF - 2 treatment and is mediated by ERK1 / 2 pathway , which in turn stimulates expression of the early growth response - 1 ( Egr - 1 ) transcription factor .
METHOD : The intratumor microvessel density ( IMVD ) , apoptotic index ( AI ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression were detected by immunohistochemistry SABC and terminal uridine deoxynucleotidyl transferase mediated nick end labeling ( TUNEL ) methods in34 LSCC patients .
Although the Bcl - 2 and Bax levels were significantly higher in spheroids , Bcl - 2 / Bax ratio was similar in monolayers and spheroids .
RESULTS : Our data showed that : tuberous sclerosis 2 ( TSC2 ) and phosphatase and tensin homolog ( PTEN ) were downregulated in most of the primary tumors , and their low expression was significantly associated with shorter disease - free and overall survival ; somatostatin receptor 2 ( SSTR2 ) was absent or very low in insulinomas compared with nonfunctioning tumors ; and expression of fibroblast growth factor 13 ( FGF13 ) gene was significantly associated with the occurrence of liver metastasis and shorter disease - free survival .
Angiogenesis in the caprine caruncles in non - pregnant and pregnant normal and swainsonine - treated does .
Bovine lactoferrin , a multifunctional glycoprotein , has been shown to strongly inhibit development of azoxymethane ( AOM ) - induced rat colon tumors .
E mu - bcl - 2 transgene facilitates spontaneous transformation of early pre - B and immunoglobulin - secreting cells but not T cells .
RESULTS : We demonstrated that cisplatin provoked a time - and dose - dependent decrease of HUVEC migration ; this effect was clearly independent from its well known cytotoxic activity .
The response to taxol and heparin - steroid was similar to that of the HPVAM , a validated angiogenesis assay .
Furthermore , we show that VEGF - A stimulation of hemopoietic cells does not significantly alter this process .
We hypothesize that neuroblastoma cells will interact with host tissues to release mediators that affect apoptosis .
During 8 days of culture under 5 % O ( 2 ) , but not room air , the addition of FGF2 to explants stimulated the formation of Gs - IB ( 4 - ) positive , CD31 - positive , and Flk - 1 - positive microvessels in a concentration - dependent manner .
The effects of exogenous DCC and netrin - 1 expression were observed together with the respective expression vector transfection .
The v - Src - transformed MEFs deficient in SWAP - 70 were unable to grow in soft agar while those expressing SWAP70 readily formed colonies , suggesting that SWAP - 70 is required for anchorage independent growth of v - Src transformed MEFs .
FPR and the piperazine derivatives caused suppression of angiogenesis and in combination with thrombin antagonized its angiogenic effect .
RESULTS : Endometrial glands in the proliferative and early secretory phase expressed both DCC and netrin - 1 , but glands in the late - secretory phase tended to silence DCC expression .
DNA damage induces a novel p53 - survivin signaling pathway regulating cell cycle and apoptosis in acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells .
The cells invasion was demonstrated by transwell assay .
Histological examination of ovarian corrosion casts indicated that NS - 398 inhibited the establishment of luteal capillary vessels following the injection of hCG .
This prospective study aimed to determine the efficacy and individual benefit of external beam radiotherapy ( EBRT ) .
It is considered that resection of the primary tumor induces activation of systemic angiogenesis and enhances progression of remote metastasis .
Thus , p21 coupled p53 - dependent checkpoint control and preservation of chromosomal stability , and cooperated with apoptosis in suppressing tumor onset in mice .
METHODOLOGY / PRINCIPAL FINDINGS : Gene expression was analyzed by quantitative RT - PCR on islets isolated from 10 - week - old diabetic GK and control Wistar rats .
In this study , we address the mechanism by which VEGFR - 2 phosphorylation is regulated by dopamine .
In animal or cell culture studies , the growth and spread of cancer can be slowed by many nutrients , food factors , herbal extracts , and well - tolerated , available drugs that are still rarely used in the clinical management of cancer , in part because they seem unlikely to constitute definitive therapies in themselves .
This study was designed to investigate the effect of EBV - LMP1 on related factors of metastasis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line CNE1 .
UFT , an anticancer agent that is composed of tegafur ( FT ) and uracil at a molar ratio of 1 : 4 , is widely used in clinical practice in Japan to treat cancer patients requiring a long - term chemotherapy , and it is associated with few side effects , if any .
In the present study the effects of the 48 - hour administration of granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor ( GM - CSF ) ( 100 U / mL ) or interleukin - 3 ( IL - 3 ) ( 100 U / mL ) on the proliferative activity of leukemic cells and on the intracellular metabolism and cytotoxic efficacy of a subsequent 12 - hour application of cytosine arabinoside ( ara - C ) at doses of 0 . 1 , 1 . 0 , 10 . 0 , and 100 . 0 mumol / L were evaluated on bone marrow cells from 17 patients with acute myeloid leukemia .
Some human cancer cells have been found to overexpress eph mRNAs without gene amplification .
Microvascular density and vascular endothelial growth factor immunoreactivity as predictors of regional lymph node metastasis from betel - associated oral squamous cell carcinoma .
The Erbb2 receptor is activated by UV irradiation , the primary cause of non - melanoma skin cancer .
CONCLUSION : PDT preserves vision in patients with CNV associated with PM .
Increased VEGF expression by malignant tumors has been associated with high vascularity , increased cancer cell growth , and lymph node metastasis .
A partial response ( PR ) was obtained after the first course with regression of multiple pulmonary metastases .
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES : Chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) is the most common leukemia in the western world .
Cytotoxic concentrations of cisplatin , etoposide , doxorubicin or peplomycin ( tentatively termed as Group I compounds ) , but not methotrexate and 5 - FU ( tentatively termed as Group II compounds ) , enhanced the cytotoxic activity of NaF .
In ILP , reduced tumour growth was observed when L - NAME was used alone .
Histogenesis of the abnormal vessels may involve production of an angiogenic factor by the cancerized epithelia .
Inhibition of angiogenesis has been shown to be an effective strategy in cancer therapy in mice .
Uncultured peripheral blood T - cells from human T - cell leukemia - lymphoma virus - infected individuals expressed DR antigens at a low level , and the DR alpha locus was partially unmethylated .
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the biological features of gastric cancer of the remnant stomach ( RSC ) .
Antibodies against beta ( 2 ) M or MHC class I induce tumor cell apoptosis by 1 ) recruiting MHC class I molecules to lipid rafts and activating LYN kinase and the signal - transducing enzyme phospholipase C - gamma2 - dependent c - Jun N - terminal kinase signaling pathway and 2 ) expelling interleukin 6 and insulin - like growth factor 1 receptors out of lipid rafts and inhibiting the growth and survival factor - induced activation of the phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase / Akt and extracellular signal - related kinase pathways .
Platelets release several growth factors and bioactive agents that play a central role in development of not only thrombus but also of intimal thickening .
Use of uteroglobin for the engineering of polyvalent , polyspecific fusion proteins .
They code for proteins of 21 kDa , highly conserved in evolution , which belong to the superfamily of ras GTPases .
The ras - encoded proteins are similar to regulatory G - proteins and are candidates for the unknown G - protein that modulates phosphatidylinositol ( PI ) turnover .
Lewis lung carcinomas in mice by up to 65 % .
METHODS AND MATERIALS : The prospective trial included 287 patients with subfoveal neovascularization due to AMD which was verified by fluorescein angiography .
Emerging metabolic targets in cancer therapy .
The present work supports and extends the finding of previous studies , since the results showed that the glucose metabolism depressed the oxidative processes in Ehrlich ascites tumor mitochondria , not only alone , but also in the presence of glutamine .
Vinculin staining showed that the leading edge of ECs on 15 - microm wide strips had focal adhesions that were oriented with their lamellipodial protrusion and the direction of cell migration ; this arrangement of the focal adhesions may promote EC migration .
In support of this hypothesis , other treatments which act through different mechanisms to interfere with protein processing ( i . e . , tunicamycin , brefeldin A , and azetidine ) were also found to be much more toxic for VHL - deficient cells .
Lactate and pyruvate , the end products of glycolysis , are highly produced by cancer cells even in the presence of oxygen .
Experimental Design : Human umbilical vein and dermal microvascular endothelial cells were infected with replication - deficient adenoviruses encoding survivin ( pAd - Survivin ) , green fluorescent protein ( pAd - GFP ) , or a phosphorylation - defective survivin Thr ( 34 ) - - > Ala ( pAd - T34A ) dominant negative mutant .
They establish cyclin D1 as a proto - oncogene whose activity appears to depend on a specific cell type as well as on a specific cooperating partner and link disturbances in the regulation of cell cycle progression to the development of human malignancies .
After over 30 years of theorizing , the use of angiogenesis inhibitors as anticancer therapy has finally moved from the realm of research to reality .
Close surveillance for arterial and venous thrombotic events is recommended .
( 3 ) .
Thus , inhibition of either ERK or Sp1 suppressed M - CSF - induced VEGF at the mRNA and protein level .
TEL is a member of the ETS family of transcription factors that interacts with the mSin3 and SMRT corepressors to regulate transcription .
p53 protein staining was positive in 29 . 7 % .
Six patients ( 46 % ) had a clinical response .
It suggests that altered PTEN gene contributes to tumorigenesis and progression of gastric carcinomas .
In 1986 , Dvorak proposed that by secreting VPF , tumors induce angiogenesis by turning on the wound healing response .
Clinical data on bevacizumab is discussed in detail .
Visual acuities were stable or improved in 86 % ( n = 18 ) .
In 1983 , Harold Dvorak and his colleagues were the first to show that tumor cells secreted vascular permeability factor ( VPF ) and that a blocking antibody to VPF could prevent the edema and fluid accumulation that is characteristic of human cancers .
AQP1 was expressed in cell membranes and its expression was higher in cancer than that in normal tissues .
These findings identify c - MYC as an important molecular switch that alters the cellular response to OSM - mediated signaling from tumor suppressive to tumor promoting .
Whereas homogeneous and intense immunoreactivity were observed in large and intermediate size blood vessels , heterogeneity of expression was found in capillaries .
The role of hypoxia in 2 - butoxyethanol - induced hemangiosarcoma .
The mRNA and protein expressions of KISS1 and of MMP - 9 protein were detected by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry respectively in 85 cases of NSCLC , and their matched lymph node metastases .
The stromal fibrous reaction associated to infiltrating carcinomas is responsible of focal increased density , and architectural distorsion , ultrasound acoustic shadowing ; abnormal neoangiogenesis can be detected by Doppler , CT or MR imaging .
Endothelial cell staining was heterogeneous and varied in different regions .
Insulin - like growth factor - I receptor - mediated vasculogenesis / angiogenesis in human lung development .
Radiosensitization by 2 - DG in monolayer cells was primarily due to an increase in mitotic death ( 23 % ) linked to cytogenetic damage ( micronuclei ) , whereas a profound induction of apoptosis ( 40 % ) accounted for the sensitization in spheroids .
Mean tumour volume was significantly lower in the DMBA - vitamin E group compared to the tumour control group .
Some vitamins like beta - carotene , retinoic acid , alpha - tocopheryl succinate , and vitamin D also regulate the expressions of certain oncogenes and cellular genes .
Glycolysis of 3T3 and Ehrlich ascites tumor cells was greatly enhanced by Nonidet P - 40 or Triton X - 100 at about 100 micrograms / mg cell protein .
Tumors are tissue - specific diseases , and their mechanisms of invasion and metastasis are highly diverse .
Tumor volume and total hemoglobin in allograft mice treated with 50 mg / kg DATS were significantly smaller than that in the control group .
CONCLUSIONS : We have shown that patients with PDR have a lower coronary collateral score than patients without DR .
RESULTS : The bone grafts were found revascularization in 3 days after surgery in the test group , whereas at 2 weeks in the control group .
Hepatectomy was performed , and the patient is alive and free of disease 1 year postsurgery .
After acquiring and interpreting diagnostic angiograms and repositioning a patient in front of the device , feeder vessel DEP and treatment evaluation required 15 to 20 minutes .
A better understanding of the mechanisms of arteriogenesis will be important for the design of more effective strategies for the treatment of patients with ischemic vascular diseases .
To this end , we generated endothelial cell lines stably expressing vGPCR or key KSHV latently expressed proteins ( vCyclin , vFlip , and LANA1 ) .
By live videomicroscopy , we confirmed that the vessels were largely nonfunctional in the absence of alpha2beta1 integrin .
VEGF mRNA expression was also observed in Ve - and OMP - stimulated HGF .
The graft size is dependent on the density of the cell suspension , but not dependent on either the number of passages the cells are taken through in culture prior to grafting or on the postoperative survival period .
Using a Matrigel plug - based model , in vivo angiogenesis was restricted with STX243 and STX140 ( 50 and 72 % , respectively , using a 10 mg kg ( - 1 ) oral dose ) , thereby showing the antiangiogenic activity of both compounds .
Solid tumors express a range of factors required to sustain their growth and promote their dissemination .
Both levels of dietary CLA showed similar effects , with the number of RBC - containing vessels per 20x field decreased to a third of that seen in control .
The presence of activating mutations has been demonstrated in the TSH - R gene as well as in the Gs alpha protein gene in thyroid toxic adenoma resulting in the constitutive activation of the cAMP pathway and it has been hypothesised that these genetic alterations may play a causative role in the disease .
Treatment of REF or REF expressing full - length T antigen , an N - terminal segment , or T251 - 708 resulted in increased expression of the p53 - responsive MDM2 gene ; apoptosis occurred through a p53 - dependent pathway , as p53 - null cells expressing these T antigens were resistant to 5 - FU - induced apoptosis .
Convergence of p53 and TGF - beta signaling networks .
Bevacizumab is a humanized immunoglobulin G1 monoclonal antibody to vascular endothelial growth factor that has been shown to have activity in malignant gliomas when combined with irinotecan .
CD82 expression was significantly reduced in lymph node metastases .
The deficiency in the p53 - mediated regulation of glycolysis and mitochondrial respiration greatly accounts for the deficient respiration of the predominance of aerobic glycolysis in cancer cells ( the Warburg effect ) , while the deficiency in the p53 - modulated antioxidant defense mechanisms contributes to mutagenesis and additionally boosts the carcinogenesis process .
We found that bolus ( 3h ) treatment with doxorubicin resulted in a dose - dependent decrease of viable cells and concomitant increase of apoptosis .
Transformed cells exhibited lower levels of RNA as compared with normal fibroblasts .
Similar to tumors expressing dominant - negative TGF - beta type II receptor , histochemical studies revealed less fibrosis and increased angiogenesis in xenografted tumors expressing c - Ski compared to control tumors .
GSE could also inhibit the VEGF receptor / mitogen - activated protein kinase - mediated signaling pathway in endothelial cells .
In addition , PTEN promoter methylation appeared more frequently in multiple CCMs , including familial cases ( 46 . 7 % ) , than that in single - lesioned CCMs ( 11 . 8 % ; P < 0 . 05 ) .
An important role of proprotein convertases in tumorigenic processes has been suggested by various studies .
Therefore , we speculated that Ang II may promote the expression of sFlt - 1 in pregnancy .
We present evidence that apoptosis of caspase - 3 - deficient MCF - 7 breast cancer cells is defective in response to cisplatin treatment , as determined by chromatin condensation , nuclear fragmentation , DNA fragmentation , and release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria .
Stimulation of endothelial cell migration by vascular permeability factor / vascular endothelial growth factor through cooperative mechanisms involving the alphavbeta3 integrin , osteopontin , and thrombin .
Swift elimination of undesirable cells is an important feature in tumour suppression and immunity .
For this purpose , the presence of COX - 2 and PPARgamma was immunohistochemically examined in 71 epithelial ovarian carcinomas , 18 borderline tumours and 23 benign tumours and the levels of COX - 2 and PPARgamma proteins were determined by enzyme immunoassay in four benign tumours , three borderline tumours and 12 carcinomas .
Neovascularization is associated with mechanical strain - dependent induction of angiogenic factors such as CCN1 , an immediate - early gene - encoded matricellular molecule critical for vascular development and repair .
In order to elucidate a mechanism for cancer - induced osteoclastogenesis , cells from a human breast cancer line , MDA - MB - 231 , were directly co - cultured with ST2 , MC3T3 - E1 , or with primary mouse calvarial cells .
Consistently , it was found that MOG rapidly decreased the intracellular glutathione ( GSH ) content in a dose - dependent manner and the significance of GSH depletion in MOG - induced apoptosis was further supported by the protective effects of tert - butylhydroquinone ( tBHQ ) and the facilitative effects of DL - buthionine ( S , R ) - sulfoximine ( BSO ) .
The present study used JB6 P + mouse epidermal cells and AP - 1 - luciferase reporter transgenic mice to identify whether exposure to Cum - OOH caused activation of AP - 1 , oxidative stress , depletion of antioxidants and tumor formation during two - stage carcinogenesis .
We could imagine that it also plays a role in adjuvant chemotherapy effectiveness since , perhaps not coincidentally , this is most beneficial for premenopausal node - positive patients .
Furthermore , transient transfection studies with NIH3T3 cells indicated that the expression of activated Galpha ( 12 ) readily increased the expression of SET protein by 24 h .
Arteriogenesis : the development and growth of collateral arteries .
p53 is a protein with many talents .
The inhibition of migration by HKa is reversed by antibodies to urokinase - type plasminogen activator receptor .
Magnitude of malate - aspartate reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide shuttle activity in intact respiring tumor cells .
METHODS : Six patients with lymphoma twice underwent [ 18F ] FDG - PET imaging : once after fasting overnight and once during euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp .
Reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) produced in the course of cellular oxidative phosphorylation , and by activated phagocytic cells during oxidative bursts , exceed the physiological buffering capacity and result in oxidative stress .
The latter in its parent form or in its sugar form , deoxyribose ( dR ) may play a role in the induction of angiogenesis .
The region contains a number of small open reading frames on each side and within the MSRs .
These results show that the actin - binding domain of Abl enhances leukemia development but does not appear to be an absolute requirement for leukemogenesis .
Similar translocations are found in mouse plasmacytomas and both diseases involve interchanges between one of the immunoglobulin loci and DNA in the vicinity of the myc gene .
Excluding N - stage , vascular grade was the only independent prognostic factor ( P = 0 . 007 ) .
Levels of FGFR1 , but not FGFR2 , were increased in embryonic aorta cultured under 5 % O ( 2 ) relative to room air .
HIF - 1alpha stabilization and the expression of VEGF isoform 165 and 121 in hypoxia were also reduced by the infection of lentiviral shRNA of TB4 in B16F10 cells .
Having identified the nucleolar localisation sequence in BAG - 1L , we showed that mutation of this sequence did not prevent BAG - 1L from potentiating VDR activity .
CONCLUSIONS : PDT can reduce the clinical signs of activity , such as choroidal hyperpermeability or neurosensorial retinal detachment , in patients affected by chronic CSC .
CONCLUSIONS : Rab5a and Rab7a regulate VEGFR2 trafficking toward early and late endosomes .
In accord with our hypothesis , in a variety of different FH - deficient tissues , including a novel murine model of Fh1 - deficient smooth muscle , we show a striking and progressive upregulation of a tumorigenic metabolic profile , as manifested by increased PKM2 and LDHA protein .
We compared a treatment schedule were cells were bolus incubated for 3h with doxorubicin followed by 24h in drug - free medium , with a continuous doxorubicin treatment schedule for 24h .
The decline in circulating endothelial cells and their precursors suggests that this combination may be working by inhibiting angiogenesis but should be validated in a larger patient sample .
PLD activity has been shown to be significantly elevated in many tumours and transformed cells , suggesting the possibility that PLD might be involved in tumorigenesis .
Tumor endothelial cell targeted cyclic RGD - modified heparin derivative : inhibition of angiogenesis and tumor growth .
N - myc overrode the metabolic protection provided by Bcl - 2 - induced oxidative phosphorylation by reestablishing the glycolytic phenotype and attenuated the antiapoptotic effect of Bcl - 2 during metabolic stress .
Our results indicate that TLX is involved in glioma stem cell genesis and represents a potential therapeutic target for this type of malignancy .
Immunohistochemical and in situ hybridization studies revealed the presence of IGF - I / II - IGF - IR ligands and mRNA transcripts in embryonic lungs as early as 4 wk gestation .
Hypoxic induction of HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma lines is mediated by stress activated protein kinases .
Non - specific PKC inhibitors staurosporine and bisindolylmaleimide II as well as inhibitors specific to conventional PKCs ( Go6976 ) and PKC - delta ( rottlerin ) attenuated NF - kappaB activation in BPDE treated cells to a varying degree indicating a possible link between PKC down - regulation and the attenuation of NF - kappaB activity by TSC phenolic fraction .
Here we demonstrate that bone marrow - derived haematopoietic progenitor cells that express vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 1 ( VEGFR1 ; also known as Flt1 ) home to tumour - specific pre - metastatic sites and form cellular clusters before the arrival of tumour cells .
The level of apoptosis correlated directly with the expression level of the receptor , indicating that p75 may activate the cell death program directly .
Our data show a significant loss of Plexin C1 in metastatic melanoma compared with primary melanoma , suggesting the possibility that the Plexin C1 receptor is a tumor suppressor protein for melanoma .
Normal cells are 10 - to 50 - fold more resistant to these effects .
Group 2 was treated by Enoxaparine Na , group 3 received HBO therapy , and group 4 was given both enoxaparine Na and HBO treatment .
Constitutively active RhoA ( FRTL - 5 - RhoA QL cells ) exhibited a fibroblast - like phenotype with organized actin fibers , whereas cells expressing the RhoA negative dominant phenotype ( FRTL - 5 - RhoA N19 cells ) present a rounded morphology and lose normal cytoskeletal architecture .
This study examines the mechanism of HKa and D5 inhibition of two potent stimulators of endothelial cell migration , sphingosine 1 - phosphate ( S1P ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , that act through the P13 - kinase - Akt signaling pathway .
Compared with BM - MSC , FM - MSC secreted a comparable amount of hepatocyte growth factor despite a small amount of vascular endothelial growth factor .
Potentiation of camptothecin - induced apoptosis by TRAIL appears dependent on cooperation between extrinsic and intrinsic pathways , as documented by loss of the sensitization to apoptosis following reduction of caspase 8 after small interfering RNA transfection .
However , no changes were observed in the presence of netrin - 1 .
In conclusion , allogeneic FM - MSC injection did not elicit a lymphocyte proliferative response and provided significant improvement in a rat model of hind limb ischemia , comparable to the response to BM - MSC .
This review will focus on perlecan - growth factor interactions and describe recent advances in our understanding of this highly conserved proteoglycan during development , cancer growth , and angiogenesis .
This in vitro morphogenesis was inhibited by the addition of anti - sialyl Le ( x ) / Le ( a ) or anti - beta ( 1 ) - integrin antibodies , which led to the formation of cancer cell aggregates that were independent from the F - 2 cell networks .
We thus have identified a novel element of the complex signaling network involved in the control of cell proliferation and differentiation .
Ectopic expression of Cdc25a prevented UV - induced S - phase arrest in keratinocytes lacking Erbb2 activity , demonstrating that maintenance of Cdc25a by Erbb2 suppresses cell cycle arrest .
Additionally , glutathione depletion and extracellular signal - regulated kinase ( ERK ) inactivation was observed in EPOX - treated cells .
Here , we show that deleting the Tip30 gene leads to ductal hyperplasia in mouse mammary glands early in life and extensive mammary hyperplasia with age .
Experimental drug therapy of peritumoral brain edema .
In the absence of both GM - CSF and fetal bovine serum ( FBS ) , 70 % of the DNA was fragmented after 3 days in culture , with a characteristic apoptotic ladder - like pattern on agarose gel electrophoresis , whereas this proportion had initially been < 5 % .
Therefore , in the situation without peritoneal involvement , hyperfibrinogenemia is a useful biomarker to predict the possible metastasis and worse clinical outcome in T2 gastric cancer .
In experimental RG1 2 . 2 glioma of rat brain , local blood flow , glucose utilization , protein synthesis , glucose and ATP content were measured by means of triple tracer autoradiography and bioluminescence technique , respectively , to determine hemodynamic and metabolic thresholds for local tumor energy failure .
Interestingly , significant associations were found between CYR61 expression versus tumor grade , pathology , gender , and age at diagnosis .
The indication for surgery was established on the basis of pathologic calcitonin levels in the first seven patients and on the basis of detected RET proto - oncogene mutation in the other eight patients .
In the presence of both glucose and glutamine , the Crabtree effect decreased .
In addition , serum concentration of the angiogenesis inhibitor , endostatin , decreased significantly after primary tumor removal .
Collectively , these data suggest that the DSCR1s promoter directs vascular bed - specific expression in activated endothelium and that DSCR - 1s serves to dampen the host response to infection .
Furthermore , interaction of fibroblasts and high invasive melanoma cells with soluble recombinant DC - 9 resulted in enhanced expression of MMP - 1 and MMP - 2 .
We verified this finding by Northern blot analysis .
Pharmacologic agents have been identified that target these pathways , yet for some agents ( notably thalidomide ) , an understanding of the specific mechanisms of antitumor action has proved elusive .
[ mRNA expression of metastasis - suppressor gene nm23 in carcinoma of buccal mucosa . II . Quantitative reverse transcription PCR amplification ] .
PTTG - induced galectin - 1 transactivation and expression were mediated by c - Myc , and both inductions were suppressed by c - Myc RNAi cotranfection .
We have suggested that constitutive activation of this kinase is one mechanism by which oncogenes transform cells .
PURPOSE : The matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) are a family of proteolytic enzymes involved in tumor invasion ; several individual members of which have been implicated in tumor prognosis .
Most anti - angiogenic therapies for malignant gliomas are in Phase I / II trials and only modest efficacies are reported for monotherapies .
Serum VEGF levels were higher in patients with PDR than in those without DR ( 219 + / - 99 vs . 139 + / - 98 pg / ml , p less than 0 . 001 ) ; however , patients with poor and good CCC had similar VEGF levels .
IL - 18 , originally identified as interferon - gamma inducing factor ( IGIF ) , is related to the IL - 1 family in terms of its structure as well as its processing , receptor , signal transduction pathway and pro - inflammatory properties .
These findings provide the first evidence that the AT2 receptor mediates a stimulation of in vivo angiogenesis and indicate that ANG II is a humoral regulator of peripheral angiogenesis involving two receptor subtypes with opposing actions .
HIF - 2alpha was detected in hypoxic and in well - oxygenized neuroblastoma cells and tissue , presumably reflecting their embryonic features .
BACKGROUND & # 38 ; OBJECTIVE : It has been proved that Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) latent membrane protein 1 ( EBV - LMP1 ) can induce the expression of matrix metalloproteinase - 9 ( MMP - 9 ) .
These results suggest that L - Car , possibly via its free radical scavenging and antioxidant properties , ameliorates MTX - induced oxidative organ injury and inhibits leukocyte apoptosis .
We have reported recently that the long terminal repeat ( LTR ) of Moloney murine leukemia virus encodes a trans activator which induces transcription and expression of class I major histocompatibility complex genes and certain cytokine genes .
Dietary conjugated linoleic acid ( CLA ) has been shown previously to inhibit rat mammary carcinogenesis .
In uremic patients , NOS activity is positively correlated with the duration of PD .
Granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor and interleukin - 3 enhance the incorporation of cytosine arabinoside into the DNA of leukemic blasts and the cytotoxic effect on clonogenic cells from patients with acute myeloid leukemia .
METHODS : To evaluate antiangiogenic activity of cRGD - HL , we performed tests on endothelial cell adhesion and migration to vitronectin , tube formation , binding affinity to purified alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) integrin , and in vivo Matrigel plug assay .
It is therefore highly likely that these alterations are an important component in tumor resistance to therapy .
While endostatin is being investigated for its usefulness in treating solid tumors , its significance in hematologic malignancies is unknown .
Furthermore , we have searched for the underlying mechanisms of apoptosis by demonstrating apoptosis - related genes .
The relationship between P185neu - protein tyrosine kinase expression and specific PTPase expression may play a critical role in human breast tumorigenesis .
Moreover , the ternary combination resulted in a significant increase of VEGF secretion in HT - 29 cancer cells .
We now show that c - MYC overexpression is sufficient to rescue proliferation and to release the differentiation block imposed by Runx2 .
Manipulation of Rab7a GTPase activity associated with late endosomes using overexpression of wild - type or mutant proteins blocks activated VEGFR2 trafficking and degradation .
Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) transforms B lymphocytes through the expression of the latent viral proteins EBNA and latent membrane protein ( LMP ) .
BMECs transfected with hTERT alone were functionally and phenotypically normal .
CONCLUSIONS : The level of fibrinogen in patients with pancreatic carcinoma was elevated .
Polyethylene glycol - superoxide dismutase ( PEG - SOD ) markedly inhibited both the increases in VEGF expression and the proliferative effects of 20 - HETE .
Tumor size was measured every 3 days .
Here , in order to characterize the role of the promoter that drives DSCR - 1s expression in mediating inducible expression in vivo and to determine the functional relevance of DSCR - 1s in inflammation , we targeted a DNA construct containing 1 . 7 kb of the human DSCR1s promoter coupled to the lacZ reporter to the hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase ( Hprt ) locus of mice .
Controlling lymph node metastasis is currently a key issue in cancer therapy .
These cells were negative for Hep par - 1 , carcinoembryonic antigen , neural cell adhesion molecule , CD34 , CD31 and HMB45 .
On the other hand , VEGF levels were not increased by LPS stimulation .
The study shows that clear cell tumors are able to up - regulate angiogenic growth factor receptors more efficiently than chromophil ( papillary ) , that clear cell tumors can use pathways independent of VHL to regulate angiogenesis , and that this combined regulation may account for their more aggressive phenotype , which suggests that targeting VEGFR1 ( flt - l ) may be particularly effective in these tumor types .
BACKGROUND : The coagulation function in patients with pancreatic carcinoma is abnormal and the reason is not very clear .
We believe that this group of RNAs , which map antisense to the ICP4 homolog gene , are latency - associated transcripts of MDV .
The effects of PDFs with different amounts of GDPs were compared on morphological changes in the peritoneal membrane in a RAGE - / - mouse model .
BAG - 1L was nucleoplasmic and nucleolar , whereas BAG - 1S and BAG - 1M were cytoplasmic and nucleoplasmic in localisation .
[ A case report of advanced gastric cancer responding to TS - 1 , a novel oral fluorouracil derivative ] .
RESULTS : MMP - 9 was expressed in both cell lines but the intensity of the staining was different .
MMTV - cre - mediated fur inactivation concomitant with PLAG1 proto - oncogene activation delays salivary gland tumorigenesis in mice .
These results demonstrate the importance of specific oncogene interaction in myeloid leukemogenesis .
It has been suggested that the expression of this protein may be of prognostic significance in gastric , colorectal , and bladder carcinomas .
These sinusoids had a great deal of surface area for potential contact with the fetal component .
Recent data suggest that activation of the integrin - associated protein CD47 promotes neuronal cell death .
It also promotes endothelial differentiation into capillary - like structures in an in vitro assay and is angiogenic in the chick chorionallantoic membrane .
Upon retroviral transduction of the mouse c - myc gene , Rat 6 cells showed mildly altered morphology and formed microcolonies in soft agar ; furthermore , they could be transformed by BP and MNNG to form large colonies in agar ( Hsiao et al . ( 1992 ) Mol . Carcinogenesis , 5 , 140 - 154 ) .
One option is to reduce the G - CSF dosage as much as possible , and observe the tempo of progression , if any , to more overt signs of malignancy .
All - trans retinoic acid ( ATRA ) could potently inhibit the growth of prostate cancer cells in vitro and its combination with various anticancer agents results in increased cytotoxicity .
Several cell types in a tissue secrete IL - 8 .
We now report direct evidence that N1 ( ic ) must accumulate in the nucleus to induce transformation of RKE cells .
An anti - vascular endothelial growth factor strategy may reduce tissue damage associated with radiation vasculopathy and neuropathy .
We hypothesized that activation of store - operated Ca2 + channels ( SOCs ) is sufficient to promote cell shape change necessary for these processes .
The aim of this study was to ascertain the potential usefulness of the antiangiogenic compound linomide for treatment of von Hippel - Lindau ( VHL ) - related tumors .
Treatment of murine pulmonary capillary endothelial cells with HAH - cortisol at 10 ( - 5 ) M ( with respect to cortisol ) suppressed their DNA synthesis by 50 % and inhibited their migration into wounded areas of confluent monolayers .
The fibrinolytic ( plasminogen / plasmin ) and matrix metalloproteinase ( MMP ) systems cooperate in these processes .
Together , these results suggest that Tip30 is an intrinsic and negative regulator of MEC proliferation partly through the inhibition of Wisp2 and Igf - 1 expression , and its absence in the mammary gland may predispose MECs to neoplastic transformation .
In mice , xenografts of human glioblastoma U87MG , which has decreased expression of ING4 , grow significantly faster and have higher vascular volume fractions than control tumours .
CONCLUSIONS : Our promising results on the potential antitumor effects of hPNAS - 4 on ovarian cancer in vitro and in vivo may be explained , in part , by the induction of apoptosis and inhibition of angiogenesis .
Activation of PKA ( cAMP - dependent protein kinase ) by androgen increased phosphorylation of CREB [ CRE ( cAMP - response element ) - binding protein ] , which in turn bound to CRE on the promoter of the HK2 gene resulting in transcriptional activation of the HK2 gene .
Antibodies to PA - 1 dose - dependently , and significantly , inhibited the invasive and migratory potential of human HT1080 fibrosarcoma cells , as did an antibody to uPA and the plasmin inhibitor aprotinin .
PURPOSE : To optimize the method of treating choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) associated with age - related macular degeneration ( AMD ) .
Chronic exposure to tobacco smoke , which contains over 60 tumor - initiating carcinogens , is the major risk factor for development of lung cancer , accounting for a large portion of cancer - related deaths worldwide .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : An Affymetrix expression microarray was used to compare gene expression profiles between six pairs of TFs and normal fibroblasts from esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( ESCC ) .
Myb ' s ability to regulate c - myc ' s expression was also demonstrated in these cells , showing a mechanism through which the proto - oncogene c - myb can exert its oncogenic potential in myeloid lineage hematopoietic cells .
DMBA maxima were significantly higher than those of DMBA + radiation .
Few studies have investigated the association between p53 and VEGF expressions and prognosis in esophageal carcinoma .
Taken together , these data suggest that signal - controlled activation of SRF , MRTF - A , and CBP provides a novel connection between mechanical stimuli and angiogenic gene expression .
The hybrid cells , however , exhibited normal morphology , anchorage requirement for proliferation , and largely extended latency periods of tumorigenicity in newborn rats .
Because islet inflammation may originate from endothelial cells , we assessed the expression of selected genes involved in endothelial cell activation in islets from a spontaneous model of type 2 diabetes , the Goto - Kakizaki ( GK ) rat .
However , there is little information about their possible roles in non - small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) .
Therefore , understanding these signaling mechanisms may provide us with novel ways to develop strategies for treating clinical diseases induced by these cytokines .
Several factors contribute to the start of intimal thickening .
Further investigations of this pathway with regard to preventing peritoneal fibrosis should be performed to maintain the integrity of the peritoneal membrane in peritoneal dialysis patients .
Molecular and cell - physiological analyses have improved the understanding of tumour biology and provide the opportunity for new therapeutic approaches .
High - grade CC - RCC showed a higher ECP % ( P = 0 . 049 ) , a higher TCP % ( P = 0 . 009 ) , a higher VEGF protein expression ( P less than 0 . 001 ) , a lower MVD ( P less than 0 . 001 ) and a lower HIF - 1alpha protein expression ( P = 0 . 002 ) than low - grade CC - RCC .
Because AR - ARD1 interaction facilitated the AR binding to its targeted promoters for gene transcription , we propose that ARD1 functions as a unique AR regulator and forms a positive feedback loop for AR - dependent prostate tumorigenesis .
Similar results were also obtained with respect to 5 - FU .
The cytostatic drug doxorubicin is a well - known chemotherapeutic agent which is used in treatment of a wide variety of cancers .
After 2 h incubation at 37 degrees C the drop in the ATP level was much lower .
A growing body of evidence indicates that deregulation of stem cell fate determinants is a hallmark of many types of malignancies .
The MVD and Ki - 67 LI were significantly higher ( p less than 0 . 01 and p less than 0 . 001 ) , and the AI was significantly lower ( p less than 0 . 001 ) in the SCC with p53 protein expression than in the SCC without it .
As SET has been previously reported to be an inhibitor of phosphatase PP2A , the nuclear phosphatase activity was monitored in cells expressing activated Galpha ( 12 ) .
There was also an up - regulation of Bax , which altered the Bax : Bcl - 2 ratio , which may be responsible for mitochondrial depolarization reported to be involved prior to the induction of apoptosis .
The activated PI3K ( phosphoinositide 3 - kinase ) / Akt signalling pathway in LNCaP cells contributes to the phosphorylation of PFKFB2 at Ser466 and Ser483 , resulting in the constitutive activation of PFK - 2 ( 6 - phosphofructo - 2 - kinase ) activity .
The molecular mechanisms regulating the gene expression under hypoxic conditions could increase the therapeutic window of tumor - specific delivery systems .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : We analyzed antigenicity , hydrophilicity , and charge distribution of the angioinhibitory epitope ( the 34 - mer ) and designed three peptides covering its COOH terminus , P14 , P18 , and P23 .
Enhanced expression of vascular endothelial growth factor by periodontal pathogens in gingival fibroblasts .
Newly forming vessels have thin caliber , a markedly reduced vessel lumen , markedly reduced pericyte recruitment , and deficient vascular perfusion .
Ischemia , involving restricted blood flow to tissues is the most common consequence of vessel dysfunction resulting in the disruption of oxygen and nutrient delivery and the accumulation of waste metabolites .
These results suggest that there is cell type specificity for oncogene activation during in vitro rat bladder transformation initiated by a single carcinogen and that ras gene activation is not a necessary step in urothelial transformation in vitro .
Malignancy in cancer is associated with aerobic glycolysis ( Warburg effect ) evidenced by increased trapping of [ ( 18 ) F ] deoxyglucose ( FdG ) in patients imaged by positron emission tomography ( PET ) .
Angiogenesis in platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule - 1 - null mice .
These transcripts were localized in stromal fibroblasts adjacent to the neoplastic foci .
Immunoblotting and immunostaining studies demonstrated an upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) mostly along the endothelium lining peritoneal blood vessels in long - term PD patients .
Here , we report a tumorigenic role of TLX in brain tumor initiation and progression .
The integration of vascular grading in clinical trials on adjuvant chemotherapy and / or radiotherapy could substantially contribute in defining groups of operable patients who might benefit from cytotoxic treatment .
However , mutant WT1 ( R394W ) which has a mutation in the DNA binding domain could not repress the N - myc promoter .
Transforming growth factor - beta ( TGF - beta ) , a major factor in the activation of fibroblasts , increased alpha - SMA and desmin expression and the ability of cell migration and invasion in NIH3T3 cells .
Coagulation function in patients with pancreatic carcinoma .
Presumably , glycolysis is one of the regulatory mechanisms of intracellular ratios of monovalent cations .
High osteonectin expression was correlated with high lung colonization .
In vitro studies have shown that the mast cell seems to behave as a helper cell for capillary endothelial cells , in some way speeding up their rate of directional migration .
Our study reveals a hitherto unrecognized link between p53 and IFN - alpha / beta in tumour suppression and antiviral immunity , which may have therapeutic implications .
After a 48 - hour incubation period , seven groups of animals were treated for 21 days with fluconazole , with group I acting as a control , and groups II to VII receiving adjunct therapy with the corticosteroid prednisolone ( 5 or 10 times daily ; 3 , 9 , or 15 days after infection ) .
In experimental breast cancer , estradiol increased IL - 8 whereas the anti - estrogen tamoxifen inhibited the secretion of IL - 8 both in vitro and extracellularly in vivo in tumors of nude mice .
In vivo , LeTx decreased MAPK activity and blocked fibrosarcoma growth .
These two somewhat diametrically opposed roles will be discussed in light of new data emerging from various fields which converge on perlecan as a key regulator of cell growth and angiogenesis .
Besides regulating leukocyte trafficking in normal and injured tissues , several chemokines may positively or negatively regulate angiogenesis .
Genetic instability is a hallmark of human cancers .
Visual acuity in eyes with progressive lesions decreased a median of 4 lines of vision .
Our earlier studies showed that DATS induced apoptosis in human colon cancer HT29 and colo 205 cell lines in vitro .
IFN - alpha / beta signalling itself does not activate p53 ; rather , it contributes to boosting p53 responses to stress signals .
CONCLUSION : Vascular bundle implantation improved angiogenesis in non - vascularized autogenous bone graft in this study .
An image analysis system was also used to quantify the proportion of tumor nuclei with MDM2 staining ( ACIS index ) and staining intensity .
The p53 tumor suppressor plays pivotal role in the organism by supervising strict compliance of individual cells to needs of the whole organisms .
Hence , GM - CSF and IL - 3 enhance the intracellular metabolism of ara - C and its incorporation into the DNA of leukemic cells leading to a higher antileukemic activity of ara - C on clonogenic leukemic cells ( CFU - L ) .
NIH3T3 transfectant containing human K - ras oncogene shows enhanced metastatic activity after in vivo tumor growth or co - culture with fibroblasts .
No alteration was detected in either of these regions in any phase of the disease .
A further study found that FGFR2 - positive fibroblasts were only observed inside the tumor tissues and not in tumor - surrounding stromal tissues , suggesting that FGFR2 could be used as a TF - specific marker in ESCC .
The prosurvival autophagic response of myeloma to nutrient deprivation or to nucleoside analogue treatment has not been described previously .
Although some recent reports suggest that microvessel counts in non - small cell lung cancer are related to a poor disease outcome , the results were not conclusive and were not compared with other molecular prognostic markers .
An anti - IL - 8 Ab inhibited endothelial cell proliferation induced by cancer cell produced IL - 8 and tumors with low IL - 8 levels exhibited decreased angiogenesis .
Analysis of two independent lines with expression in the fetal and adult CNS demonstrated that transgenic neural stem cells formed larger colonies , more self - renewing divisions , and more neurons in culture .
RESULTS : Both wild - type and mutant PTEN can upregulate the expression of PTEN gene dramatically ; however , it is wild - type PTEN not phosphatase - inactive PTEN that can induce apoptosis and decrease cell migration , invasion and proliferation in ovarian cancer cells .
Furthermore , in cultured ovarian carcinoma cells , Western blot revealed that PPARgamma and COX - 2 expression was regulated conversely as a result of stimulation by 15 - deoxy - Delta ( 12 , 14 ) PGJ ( 2 ) ( 15 - PGJ ( 2 ) ) , a PPARgamma activator .
The growth of the cells was not inhibited under these conditions , except after treatment with 10 microM all - trans - RA in serum - free medium .
The system also permits precise aiming and delivery of 810 - nm wavelength photocoagulation laser energy to target FVs on a real - time ICG angiogram image of the choroidal vasculature .
Electrophoretic mobility shift assays showed that the oligonucleotides containing the WT1 motifs could bind recombinant WT1 proteins .
The transformation is a consequence of the ability of viruses to integrate into the host cell ' s DNA and to produce transforming proteins .
The efficacy of the approach may be critically dependent on the intrinsic susceptibility to apoptosis of different tumors .
Therapeutic Electromagnetic Field ( TEMF ) and gamma irradiation on human breast cancer xenograft growth , angiogenesis and metastasis .
Serum VEGF protein levels were upregulated in stage III .
At this writing , heparin appears to be the principal mast cell factor responsible for this effect on capillary endothelial cells .
It has been shown previously that the 55 - kDa polypeptide abrogates p53 - mediated transactivation and that mutants defective in p53 binding are unable to cooperate with E1A in transformation .
Pharmacological inhibition of the proteasome prevents the degradation of Hck correlating with an increase in the phosphotyrosine levels within the cells .
Excitotoxic damage due to striatal infusion of an NMDA - receptor agonist ( cis - 2 , 4 - methanoglutamate ) was also markedly inhibited ( 71 % ) by injection of the IL - 1ra .
VEGF gene expression and capillary density in the old donor - derived group were lower than those in the young donor - derived group but higher than those in the control group ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
In 3 days , 1 week , 2 weeks , 3 weeks and 4 weeks after surgery , the MVD of test group was significantly higher than that of control group .
CONCLUSIONS : PLGA microspheres with an open porous structure allowed significant amount of heparin immobilization and bFGF loading .
Cell - matrix adhesion assay showed that the adhesive ability of CNE1 - GL with the matrix ( mean A value : 1 . 2508 + / - 0 . 0711 ) was higher than that of CNE1 cell ( mean A value : 0 . 9519 + / - 0 . 068 ) ( P < 0 . 001 ) .
p21 delays tumor onset by preservation of chromosomal stability .
We detected PTTG overexpression in 66 % ( 111 of 169 ) of primary esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( ESCC ) tumor tissues by in situ hybridization .
The development of the corpus luteum ( CL ) , which involves angiogenesis , is essential for the establishment of early pregnancy .
This effect appears to be mediated , in part , by decreased expression of vascular endothelial ( VE ) - cadherin by endothelial cells in the presence of TIMP - 3 as seen both in an in vitro assay and in TIMP - 3 - overexpressing tumors .
In addition , the silencing of DCC expression may contribute to the escape of endometrial cancer cells from a DCC - regulated apoptotic program , thereby promoting malignant phenotypes .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) has recently attracted attention as a potent inducer of vascular permeability and angiogenesis .
Also , serum VEGF was significantly higher in patients with PDR than in those without DR .
Intrauterine growth restriction ( IUGR ) still accounts for a large incidence of infant mortality and morbidity worldwide .
These results show that Fas - signaling exerted a suppressive effect on p53 levels and on downstream effectors of receptor tyrosine kinase signal transduction , thereby ensuring cell death .
The pharmacokinetics of STX243 were examined at two different doses using adult female rats .
Investigating the causes of low birth weight in contrasting ovine paradigms .
We also speculate that this synchronizes them into a temporal highly chemosensitive state and is the underlying reason why adjuvant chemotherapy works particularly well for that patient category .
Topo I expression in paired primary lymph node metastases were studied for concordance .
To maintain an elevated glycolytic rate , cancerous or proliferating cells alter the expression pattern of rate limiting glycolytic enzymes .
Thus , the NO metabolic pathway in endothelial cells could be one of the main contributing factors for angiogenesis .
Simian virus 40 large T antigen and two independent T - antigen segments sensitize cells to apoptosis following genotoxic damage .
The feasibility of such a strategy has now been established through the results of studies over the past decade , and a new discipline called therapeutic angiogenesis has emerged .
VEGF , angiopoietin - 1 and - 2 in bronchial asthma : new molecular targets in airway angiogenesis and microvascular remodeling .
RESULTS : Proteomic findings indicated that adenosine triphosphate synthase alpha chain was up - regulated , whereas annexin II , annexin V , beta ( 2 ) - tubulin , and profilin 1 were down - regulated .
The factor is present in medium conditioned by mast cells as well as lysates of mast cells .
Attenuation of the proangiogenic effects by neutralizing VEGF antibodies suggests VEGF play a key role in the acquisition of the angiogenic phenotype in oral cancer cells .
Impaired coronary collateral vessel development in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy .
TNF - alpha is also an essential component of the immune system and is required for hematopoiesis , for protection from bacterial infection and for immune cell - mediated cytotoxicity .
Positron emission tomography ( PET ) demonstrated a sixfold increased uptake of [ 11C ] methionine and hyperperfusion in the HPC , whereas glucose utilization was decreased in this area .
CONCLUSIONS : Survivin functions as a novel upstream regulator of mitochondrial - dependent apoptosis , and molecular targeting of this pathway results in anticancer activity via a dual mechanism of induction of tumor cell apoptosis and suppression of angiogenesis .
In contrast , pellets from the CLA - fed animals contained fewer infiltrating cells , which formed limited branching cellular networks , the majority of which had collapsed lumen and no RBCs .
In our study , MOG was shown to specifically inhibit the growth of human leukemia cell lines and primary acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) blasts via induction of apoptosis , with the evidence of mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss , reactive oxygen species production , caspases activation and nuclear fragmentation .
High HER2 expression in specimens was additionally investigated by fluorescence in situ hybridization .
We report a novel strategy to engineer and express stable and soluble human recombinant polyvalent / polyspecific fusion proteins .
METHODS : Immunohistochemistry was used to determine the distribution of opticin in normal human CBE , and in hyperplastic and neoplastic CBE lesions .
Glucose consumption by drug - resistant myeloma cells was unaffected by 8 - aminoadenosine , and accordingly , no activation of autophagy was observed .
[ Radiologic - pathologic correlations in breast diseases ]
Inducible nitric oxide synthase modulates angiogenesis in ischemic hindlimb of rat .
In the pituitary and pancreatic islets , phosphorylation of the retinoblastoma ( Rb ) protein at both CDK2 and CDK4 / 6 sites was increased in p18 ( - / - ) and Men1 ( + / - ) cells and was further increased in p18 ( - / - ) ; Men1 ( + / - ) cells .
Targeting TNF for Treatment of Cancer and Autoimmunity .
The remaining wild - type Men1 allele was lost in most tumors from Men1 ( + / - ) mice but was retained in most tumors from p18 ( - / - ) ; Men1 ( + / - ) mice .
CONCLUSION : The protein profile of metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines displayed obvious differences compared with non - metastatic liver cancer cell lines .
In addition , this study mechanistically implicates IRSp53 in the signaling nexus between activated Cdc42 and Mena , both of which have previously been shown to be involved with Robo4 signaling in endothelial cells .
Integrin alphavbeta3 requirement for sustained mitogen - activated protein kinase activity during angiogenesis .
S . c . injection into nude mice with mixed - cell populations formed tumors that approximate the ratio of vGPCR - expressing and KSHV latent gene - expressing cells .
Moreover , HTPB inhibited activity of MMP2 and MMP9 , reduced integrin - beta1 / focal adhesion complex formation and decreased pericellular poly - fibronectin assemblies .
Sixty - eight percent of tumors in this group were vimentin positive and 88 % of all vimentin - positive tumors fell into this category .
To investigate the endothelial proliferation and the potential signaling pathways affected by PTEN methylation , proliferating cell nuclear antigen as well as phosphor - Akt and phosphor - Erk1 , 2 were detected by immunofluorescence and Western blot , respectively , in CCM specimens .
We also showed ICAM - 3 - induced cell migration and invasion in NCI - H460 NSCLC cells ( wild - type p53 and PTEN cell ) through the same signaling pathway .
In addition , we found down - regulation of cyclin B , cyclin E , and dephosphorylation of cdk2 in ciprofloxacin - treated bladder tumor cells .
Tumor necrosis factor - alpha ( TNF - alpha ) was first isolated two decades ago as a macrophageproduced protein that can effectively kill tumor cells .
It activated multicaspases , and increased the activities of caspase - 8 and caspase - 9 in both MG - 63 and SaOS - 2 cells .
We produced a transgenic mouse line that expresses simian virus ( SV40 ) transforming sequences under control of the 1 . 4 kb tyrosinase - related protein 1 ( TRP - 1 ) promoter , targeting expression of T antigen ( Tag ) to the RPE .
RESULTS : Overexpression of MDM2 by manual counts was seen in 44 % ( n = 47 ) of the patients .
One hundred mg / body / day of TS - 1 was orally administrated for 4 weeks .
Angiogenesis is induced by soluble factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) released from tumor cells in hypoxia .
Administration of 317615 x 2HCI orally twice daily to nude mice bearing subcutaneous MX - 1 tumors or SKOV - 3 tumors resulted in a decreased number of intratumoral vessels as determined by CD31 and CD105 staining with decreases of 35 % and 43 % in MX - 1 tumors and 60 % and 75 % in SKOV - 3 tumors , respectively .
To observe the influence of fungus polysaccharides compounds ( FPC ) in inducing human liver cancer cell Bel - 7402 apoptosis in cell cultivating in vitro , the authors analyzed tumor inhibitive gene P53 expression in Bel - 7402 apoptosis by applying double immuno - marker .
It is also involved in the regulation of immune reactions , hematopoiesis and inflammatory state .
Histone deacetylase inhibitors ( HDACi ) are potent anti - cancer agents for variety of cancer types .
Ha - ras cells also show less binding of phorbol ester than control cells , suggesting that elevation of DG causes partial down - regulation in addition to activation of protein kinase C .
The data suggest that various metastasis profiles exist .
Melanoma cells and human fibroblasts adhered to immobilized DC - 9 in a Mn ( 2 + ) - dependent fashion suggesting an integrin - mediated process .
But little is known about the characteristics of young donor - derived MSCs transplanted to old patients with AMI .
We have shown that Arf6 and its effector AMAP1 ( DDEF1 , DEF1 , ASAP1 and centaurin beta4 ) are abnormally overexpressed in some breast cancers and used for their invasion and metastasis .
Photodynamic therapy ( PDT ) is a novel treatment entity that exploits the photophysical properties of various photosensitive chemical entities which , upon light activation , results in targeted photooxidation and subsequent tissue destruction .
Targeting tumour pericytes is a promising anti - angiogenic therapy but requires identifying the mechanisms of their recruitment in tumour and addressing whether these mechanisms can be selectively harnessed .
Growth of both histologic types of gene - modified tumor cells in severe combined immunodeficiency ( SCID ) mice was significantly restricted when compared with controls .
The remaining SVLT mutants presented different degrees of ability to inhibit differentiation ( as shown by the expression of tissue - specific markers in transformants ) .
Only one eye received a second PDT treatment due to choroidal neovascularization .
Antiangiogenesis therapy might have a role in reducing regional metastasis .
The up - regulation of Bid ( 57 . 5 % at 12 hours , P less than 0 . 0006 ) and inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor secretion ( 57 . 7 % at 24 hours , P less than 0 . 015 ; and 50 . 3 % at 48 hours , P less than 0 . 0006 ) could be partially attributed to the effects on HIF - 1alpha , because HIF - 1alpha small interfering RNAs produced similar effects .
The Kaposi ' s sarcoma - associated herpesvirus G protein - coupled receptor as a therapeutic target for the treatment of Kaposi ' s sarcoma .
Further prospective studies are needed to prove the clinical impact of D2 - 40 .
Hepatitis B virus integration event in human chromosome 17p near the p53 gene identifies the region of the chromosome commonly deleted in virus - positive hepatocellular carcinomas .
Oxygent perfusion medium increased the TET epithelial PtO ( 2 ) ( 51 . 2 + / - 0 . 3 mm Hg vs . 33 . 4 + / - 0 . 3 mm Hg at 200 microm thickness ; 12 . 5 + / - 0 . 1 mm Hg vs . 3 . 1 + / - 0 . 1 mm Hg at 400 microm thickness , p less than 0 . 01 ) and decreased the lactate concentration ( 0 . 63 + / - 0 . 08 vs . 0 . 80 + / - 0 . 06 mmol / L , p less than 0 . 05 ) , lactate / pyruvate ( 1 . 87 + / - 0 . 26 vs . 3 . 36 + / - 10 . 13 , p less than 0 . 05 ) , and lactate / glucose ratios ( 0 . 10 + / - 0 . 00 vs . 0 . 29 + / - 0 . 14 , p less than 0 . 05 ) .
Here , we demonstrate that D2 dopamine receptor ( D2DR ) colocalizes with VEGFR - 2 at the cell surface .
Age - related impaired wound healing leads to substantial morbidity and mortality along with a large financial burden to health services .
When used appropriately , and with adequate patient education regarding photosensitivity , the risk - benefit of verteporfin for the medical treatment of neovascular AMD is favourable .
Constitutively nuclear FOXO3a localization predicts poor survival and promotes Akt phosphorylation in breast cancer .
VEGF165 mediates formation of complexes containing VEGFR - 2 and neuropilin - 1 that enhance VEGF165 - receptor binding .
IL - 12 inhibition of endothelial cell functions and angiogenesis depends on lymphocyte - endothelial cell cross - talk .
Differential diagnosis for synchronous primary ovarian and endometrial cancers and metastatic cancer .
In the high - level group the authors found typical DNA ladder eletrophoresis stripe .
Optimizing treatment of choroidal neovascularization feeder vessels associated with age - related macular degeneration .
RESULTS : The positive c - kit protein expression and c - kit gene mutation rates were 97 . 6 % ( 80 / 82 ) and 41 . 5 % ( 34 / 82 ) .
Experiments using the tsA 58 allele of the SV 40 - A gene have demonstrated that the SV 40 large T - antigen is strictly required both for immortalization and induction anchorage independence of cells .
The purpose of this study was to immunohistochemically investigate the correlation between the desmoplastic reaction and the clinicopathology of invasive breast cancer .
We did a blind prospective study in gastric cancer to assess the significance of isolated tumor cells ( ITC ) and to test the hypothesis that vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 1 ( VEGFR - 1 ) is expressed within the bone marrow at tumor - specific , premetastatic sites .
However , DMI inhibited FA - induced , GR - mediated transcription when both agents were given together .
RT - PCR and western blot techniques were used to validate target gene expression .
Neovascularization is an early and critical step in tumor development and progression .
IL - 17F deficient Apc ( Min / + ) mice showed a significant decrease in immune cell infiltration in the lamina propria .
Activation of vascular endothelial growth factor through reactive oxygen species mediates 20 - hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid - induced endothelial cell proliferation .
The number of lymph node metastases was significantly higher in HEC1A / VEGF - C cells than in HEC1A cells ( 3 . 2 vs 1 . 1 nodes / animal , respectively ) .
Neoplastic transformation and tumorigenesis associated with overexpression of phospholipase D isozymes in cultured murine fibroblasts .
( 2 ) .
Early relapse with distant metastasis often is observed in patients with cancer after resection of the primary tumor .
Elevated expression of the junB proto - oncogene is essential for v - fos induced transformation of Rat - 1 cells .
Development of a mouse model for lymph node metastasis with endometrial cancer .
OBJECTIVES : To compare the proteomic expression profile between an Epstein - Barr virus - associated NPC cell line ( C666 - 1 ) and a normal NP cell line ( NP69 ) .
The c - myc oncogene encodes for a transcriptional factor involved in many cellular processes such as proliferation , differentiation and apoptosis .
In contrast , the conditioned media induce elevated levels of proapoptotic mediators in the Chang hepatocytes .
Serum IL - 6 levels correlate with tumor stage , and survival of patients .
At the time of brain biopsy , the primary site of tumor origin was known in 45 cases and unknown in 30 cases .
Modulation of invasion within such systems is ascribed to balances between promoter and suppressor pathways .
Bevacizumab and irinotecan therapy in glioblastoma multiforme : a series of 13 cases .
Osteopontin ( OPN ) is a secreted adhesive glycophosphoprotein expressed by several cell types .
To determine whether lipofection in other organs could be enhanced by increasing the degree of vascularization , we used a transgenic mouse model with tissue - specific angiogenesis in liver .
Expression and purification of the catalytic domain of human vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 for inhibitor screening .
Pouch vascular volume and permeability changes were studied by fractional distributions of radiotracers and were analyzed by a variety of statistical methods which explored the vascular parameters , treatment types , elapsed time , presence of the carcinogen , and histopathologic changes .
Their correlation with lymph node metastasis and the predictability of lymph node metastases , by combining these factors , were also discussed .
Pathological analyses indicate that a significant large population of human ductal cancers may utilize the EGFR - GEP100 - Arf6 - AMAP1 pathway for their malignancy .
The transition between both conformations contributes to the control of glycolysis and is important for tumor cell proliferation and survival .
Increased platelet counts and systemic coagulation activation are associated with ovarian cancer progression .
Here , we investigate S727 phosphorylation of Stat3 and its subsequent effects in prostate cancer development , independent of Y705 phosphorylation , using mutated Stat3 in the human prostate cancer cell line LNCaP .
Thus , angiogenesis is a physiologic event in normal postnatal murine skin , apparently is dictated by the hair follicle , and appears to be required for normal anagen development .
Role of thrombin in angiogenesis and tumor progression .
Aquaporins in human breast cancer : identification and involvement in carcinogenesis of breast cancer .
We examined transformation - induced alterations in proliferative and invasive abilities , responses to the invasion and proliferation - regulating growth factor TGFbeta and changes in gene expression for invasion - associated enzymes or enzyme inhibitors .
The truncated fos protein that contains only part of the central region is not phosphorylated in chicken embryo fibroblasts , indicating that phosphorylation of the fos protein is not necessary for the transforming activity .
During the last decade , a significant body of evidence has accumulated , indicating that expression of the components of the IGF system are regulated by multiple factors , including growth factors , cytokines , lipoproteins , reactive oxygen species , and hemodynamic forces .
One mechanism by which alpha - MSH exerts its effects is modulation of AP - 1 and NF - kappa B .
A 74 - year - old man presented with persistent metamorphopsias of the right eye 2 weeks after intravitreal injection of bevacizumab to treat choroidal neovascularization due to exudative age - related macular degeneration .
To analyze the contribution of VEGF - C to lymph node metastasis , its corresponding gene was stably introduced into HEC1A cells ( HEC1A / VEGF - C ) , which then produced more than 10 times the amount of VEGF - C .
In addition , we found an increase of angiogenesis and HIF - 1alpha expression in TB4 - transgenic ( Tg ) mice as compared to wildtype mice .
Notch receptors and ligands ( Jagged and Delta - like ) play a critical role in this process in addition to VEGF .
The objective of this study was to ascertain whether STX243 is more active in vivo than the clinically relevant drug 2 - methoxyoestradiol ( 2 - MeOE2 ) and the structurally similar compound 2 - MeOE2 - 3 , 17 - O , O - bis - sulphamate ( STX140 ) .
At other times , both the metastases and the primary tumor may spontaneously regress without treatment .
These biologic insights are important arguments to advocate the use of low - dose radiotherapy as an effective palliative treatment for follicular lymphoma .
Insulin treatment also increased VEGF protein levels in conditioned RPE cell media in a dose - dependent manner with a median effective concentration of 5 nM .
CONCLUSION : Not only tumor cells but also TAMs secrete the VEGF - C in OSCC , and TAMs may play a major role in peritumoral lymphatic neoangiogenesis and lymphatic metastasis .
These data highlight the importance of a balanced proteolysis and suggest an additional role for PAI - 1 distinct from its role in proteolysis .
Punica granatum ( pomegranate ) and its potential for prevention and treatment of inflammation and cancer .
The loss of one allele of the p53 gene ( located on chromosome 17p13 ) occurred in at least 6 ( 60 % ) of the 10 patients who were heterozygous at the p53 locus .
Additional grafted rats treated with spironolactone ( n = 6 ) or PBS ( n = 8 ) were sacrificed on day 12 for quantitative RT - PCR analysis for mechanistic studies .
This negative regulation is mediated by the cytoskeleton as the disruption of interactions between the PSMA cytoplasmic tail and the anchor protein filamin A decreases PSMA activity , integrin function , and PAK activation .
FVIIa markedly decreased the number of cells with apoptotic morphology and prevented the DNA degradation as measured by means of TdT - mediated dUTP nick end labeling ( TUNEL ) .
Active SHP - 2 then dephosphorylates VEGFR - 2 at Y951 , Y996 and Y1059 , but not Y1175 .
Molecular mechanisms of pituitary tumorigenesis were studied using Polymerase chain reaction - single stranded conformational polymorphism with DNA sequencing to identify potential mutations in the ras protooncogenes and the tumor suppressor gene p53 in invasive pituitary adenomas and carcinomas .
Angiogenesis plays an important role in many types of cancer .
Hemostasis and mechanism of action of selective antimetastatic drugs in mice bearing Lewis lung carcinoma .
Coronary collateral circulation ( CCC ) was analyzed according to the Rentrop system .
Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) , like other DNA tumor viruses , induces morphological transformation of cells in vitro and stimulates host cell macromolecular synthesis in infected cells .
Exposure of SKOV - 3 cells to paclitaxel or carboplatin along with 317615 2HCl resulted in cell survivals that reflected additivity of 317615 x 2HCl with paclitaxel and greater - than - additive cytotoxicity with carboplatin .
Glutathione supplementation reversed the inhibitory effects of EPOX on ERK , which increases the phosphorylation of Mcl - 1 at T ( 163 . ) Overexpression of mitogen - activated protein / ERK kinase ( MEK ) partially reversed the effect of EPOX on Mcl - 1 dephosphorylation , ubiquitination , and degradation , further implicating ERK in the regulation of Mcl - 1 stability .
Quercetin increased the efficiency of pumping in EAT cells both in the absence and presence of the detergent .
CONCLUSION : In MEN II A patients undergoing prophylactic thyroidectomy , baseline but not stimulated calcitonin levels already correlate with the histologic tumor stage at the stage of clinically occult C - cell hyperplasia or medullary microcarcinoma .
Molecular analyses of tumors in beclin 1 heterozygous mice show that the remaining wild - type allele is neither mutated nor silenced .
However , the role of IL - 17F in intestinal tumorigenesis has not been addressed .
A higher percentage of cells expressing topo I in primary colorectal cancer was significantly associated with advanced age ( P = . 040 ) .
The 5T4 antigen is a transmembrane glycoprotein with a 310 amino acid extracellular domain and a 44 amino acid cytoplasmic domain .
An understanding of the molecular basis of TSP - 1 - mediated inhibition of angiogenesis and tumor progression will aid in the development of novel therapeutics for the treatment of cancer .
This resulted in formation of tumors , which were pigmented and of epithelial origin .
Members of the Runx and MYC families have been implicated as collaborating oncogenes .
This finding may be explained by a stimulatory effect of GM - CSF and IL - 3 on ara - C phosphorylating enzymes and a more rapid incorporation of ara - CTP into the DNA of leukemic blasts .
Immunohistochemistry scores for matrix metalloproteinase - 9 expression were significantly elevated compared to controls in scar endothelial cells and fibroblasts from 2 until 12 and 20 weeks , respectively .
Curcumin induces apoptosis in immortalized NIH 3T3 and malignant cancer cell lines .
The chemokine receptor CXCR4 is associated with the biological behavior of cancer , but few studies have addressed the expression and function of CXCR4 in human gastric cancer and its impact on disease prognosis .
Several reports have indicated that tetracyclines can suppress tumor MPs as well .
Integration of interferon - alpha / beta signalling to p53 responses in tumour suppression and antiviral defence .
The different expression / activation of apoptosis - related factors appears to influence the sensitization of prostate carcinoma cells by TRAIL .
The development and progression of colorectal cancer ( CRC ) is a multi - step process , and the Wnt pathways with its two molecular gladiators adenomatous polyposis coli ( APC ) and beta - catenin plays an important role in transforming a normal tissue into a malignant one .
We tested this possibility with in vitro assays using human endothelial cells , as well as in a rodent hindlimb ischemia model .
We investigated the mechanism by which ephrin - B1 promotes membrane ruffling in human aortic endothelial cells , because membrane ruffling heralds cell body migration .
RASSF1A is a tumor suppressor gene .
At this time , the cells ' growth is arrested at very high density , and no differentiated morphologic characteristics are observed .
We recently observed that FOXO3a gene inactivation occurs frequently in carcinogen - induced lung adenocarcinoma ( LAC ) .
These findings suggest that the anticarcinogenic effects of ACA might be partly due to perturbation of the polyamine metabolic pathway and triggering of caspase - 3 - like activity , which result in apoptosis .
Although it is well known that Wnt signaling is frequently dysregulated in melanoma , the functional implications of this observation are unclear .
The time courses of changes in MMP - 1 , bone growth factors ( TGF - beta1 and bFGF ) , and hGH , respectively , correlated significantly during the lengthening phase , indicating common regulatory pathways for these factors in distraction osteogenesis .
There is accumulating evidence of a role for IGF - 1 in multiple vascular pathologies , including atherosclerosis , hypertension , restenosis , angiogenesis , and diabetic vascular disease .
These results suggest that products of ethanol metabolism are important factors in the development of ethanol - induced changes in endothelial cell responsiveness to VEGF .
Oncostatin M ( OSM ) , an IL - 6 family cytokine responsible for STAT3 activation , has been implicated in cancer development , progression , invasion , and metastasis .
The median number of therapies applied , including initial surgery , was 5 ( range 3 - 7 therapies ) .
The higher mortality rate in the folate - deficient group compared with the other two groups ( 25 % versus 6 . 5 % and 5 . 6 % , P < 0 . 02 ) partially accounted for the low incidence of high - grade lesions in this group .
Abnormal expression of beta - catenin was significantly correlated with poor differentiation and lymph node metastasis .
In contrast , cancer cells depend mostly on glycolysis , the aerobic breakdown of glucose into ATP .
In addition , Brk1 downregulation results in defective directional migration and invasive growth in renal cell carcinoma cells as well as in other tumor cell types .
CONCLUSION : BRAF p . Val600Lys mutations were present at a relatively high frequency in this cohort of metastatic melanoma patients ( 27 / 183 , 15 % ) .
The cellular and molecular mechanisms by which a tumour cell undergoes metastasis to a predetermined location are largely unknown .
Thrombin decreases the ability of endothelial cells to attach to basement membrane proteins .
After cytocentrifugation the specimens were stained in accordance with the alkaline phosphatase anti - alkaline phosphatase ( APAAP ) method .
By contrast to the cytoplasmic BAG - 1 isoforms , BAG - 1L may act to suppress tumorigenesis .
Upon HTPB treatment , cell cycle arrest was induced and subsequently led to mitochondria - mediated apoptosis .
Complexes containing VEGF165 , NRP1 , and KDR were also formed in an intercellular fashion by co - culture of EC expressing KDR only , with cells expressing NRP1 only , for example , breast carcinoma cells .
RESULTS : LOH of D10S541 , D10S583 and D10S1687 was found in 37 . 5 % ( 21 / 56 ) of advanced gastric cancers .
RESULTS : AQP1 , 3 - 5 , and 10 - 12 were expressed in human breast cancer and / or normal breast tissues , and AQP1 and 3 - 5 exhibited differential expression .
AID deaminates cytidines in DNA resulting in U : G mismatches that are processed into point mutations in SHM or double - strand breaks in CSR .
Current therapy for glioma is suboptimal .
METHODS : The study included 60 patients with a known prognosis of invasive breast cancer .
In an animal experiment , marrow cells were infiltrated into the walls of long - fibril expanded polytetrafluoroethylene ( ePTFE ) vascular grafts .
The microcirculation of most tumors includes cooperation of pre - existing vessels , intussusceptive microvascular growth , postnatal vasculogenesis , glomeruloid angiogenesis and vasculogenic mimicry ( VM ) .
This pathway has been implicated to play a role in the pathogenesis of cancer and in embryonic blood vessel development .
Group 1 animals had the left buccal pouches painted three times weekly with 7 , 12 - dimethylbenz ( a ) anthracene ( DMBA ) for 14 weeks .
Rather , it has been hypothesized that , at low concentrations , MBDs produce more subtle effects on microtubule dynamics , block critical cell signaling pathways , and prevent the microtubules from properly interacting with transient subcellular assemblies ( focal adhesions and adherens junctions ) whose subsequent stabilization and / or maturation are required for cell motility and cell - cell interactions .
Simian virus 40 ( SV40 ) is a powerful tool to study cellular transformation in vitro , as well as tumor development and progression in vivo .
Neurovascular effects of CD47 signaling : promotion of cell death , inflammation , and suppression of angiogenesis in brain endothelial cells in vitro .
The co - injection of anti - Le ( x ) / Le ( a ) or anti - beta ( 1 ) - integrin antibodies produced a marked reduction in the size of A431 tumors , which were not vascularized and accompanied an independent tiny remnant clump of F - 2 cells .
Our in vivo metastasis mouse model is useful for studying the efficacy of therapeutic regimes of ovarian cancer .
The lack of treatment for worried - well patients with high - grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia combined with issues of recurrence and hormone resistance in prostate cancer survivors remains a major public health obstacle .
The basal phosphorylation of protein kinase C substrate of relative molecular mass ( Mr ) 80 , 000 ( 80K ) is significantly increased in all the ras - transformed cell lines .
AngiomiRs - - key regulators of angiogenesis .
However , very little is known about the function of RASSF1C both in normal and transformed cells .
These findings indicate that vGPCR may play a key role in Kaposi ' s sarcoma progression and provide experimental justification for developing molecular - based therapies specifically targeting vGPCR and its effectors for the treatment of Kaposi ' s sarcoma patients .
Our results leave unexplained the observation that nm23 - H1 allelic deletion correlates with metastatic potential of colon carcinomas .
The issue is complicated because both disorders have a propensity for MDS or AML as part of their natural history .
Marked angiogenesis is induced by implantation of a chamber containing RENCA cells into mice .
Induction of FOXO3a activity in doxorubicin - sensitive MCF - 7 cells was sufficient to promote Akt phosphorylation and arrest cell proliferation .
Additional rats underwent partial hepatectomy , an immunosuppressive procedure known to accelerate the growth of hepatic tumor , following tumor challenge .
Proliferative diabetic retinopathy is associated with a low level of the natural ocular anti - angiogenic agent pigment epithelium - derived factor ( PEDF ) in aqueous humor .
Immunofluorescence was used to observe the differentiation of the grafted cells into cardiomyocytes .
However , we demonstrate a novel and more complex role for PSMA in angiogenesis , where it is a principal component of a regulatory loop that is tightly modulating laminin - specific integrin signaling and GTPase - dependent , p21 - activated kinase 1 ( PAK - 1 ) activity .
RESULTS : Chang hepatocytes grown in the coculture conditioned media have an increase in TNF - alpha and Fas ligand .
Gene expression data from bone marrow ( BM ) , liver , and spleen of mice exposed to a single dose ( 4 h ) or seven daily doses of 2 - BE were used to develop a mechanistic model of hemangiosarcoma .
Collagen XII is a complex multidomain protein associated with the surface of interstitial collagen fibrils .
They also support the implication of local advanced glycation end product deposits and liberation of VEGF in that process .
Herein , we report that these compounds effectively inhibited SDF - 1 - induced migration of human breast cancer cells ( MDA - MB - 231 ) , human leukemia T cells ( Sup - T1 ) and human umbilical vein endothelial cells at concentrations of 10 - 100 nM in vitro .
Patients ' reading vision could not be saved for a long - term run .
Capillary cell migration and proliferation are proposed as sensitive quantifiable bioassays to explore the functional domains of the EGF molecule .
These aspects of OPN biology are important in tumorigenesis .
In contrast , administration of the NAD ( P ) H oxidase inhibitor apocynin had no effect to the proliferative response to 20 - HETE .
Based on the observation that netrin - 1 , the anti - apoptotic ligand for the dependence receptors DCC and UNC5H is up - regulated in colonic crypts in response to NF - kappaB , we show here that colorectal cancers from inflammatory bowel diseases patients have selected up - regulation of netrin - 1 .
alpha - MSH also induces activation of NF - kappa B but does not modulate DNA binding on costimulation with IL - 1 beta .
These included 40 ( 56 % ) metastases from a primary lung carcinoma and 31 ( 44 % ) metastases from some nonpulmonary carcinoma .
Aberrantly activated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 ( Stat3 ) is implicated in the development of various human cancers .
In the present study , we investigated the antiangiogenic mechanism of 3 , 6 - di ( 2 , 3 - epoxypropoxy ) xanthone ( EPOX ) , a novel Mcl - 1 targeting drug .
However , how survivin couples to the cell death machinery has remained elusive , and the relevant cellular targets of survivin antagonists have not been completely elucidated .
Based on our results , COUP - TFII may represent a biomarker for good prognosis in colorectal cancer .
A nutritionally induced obesity model in transgenic mice has been used extensively to study the role of the fibrinolytic and MMP systems in the development of obesity .
The internal convex surface of the caruncles of non - pregnant does was covered with capillary meshes of regular diameter and form , without crypts .
Various cellular kinases , among them members of the CK1 family , play an important role in modulating the transforming activity of SV40 , including the transforming activity of T - Ag , the major transforming protein of SV40 , itself .
Samples were assayed for glucose , lactate , and insulin concentrations and compared statistically with ten control dogs of similar weight and age undergoing an identical dextrose challenge .
We found a significant positive correlation between IL - 8 and estradiol in normal breast tissue and hormone - dependent breast cancer in vivo .
In only 3 out of 13 cases , representing patients with adenocarcinomas of the stomach receiving chemotherapy , was ras p21 detected at elevated levels , whereas in patients with the following types of cancer no substantial change in serum ras p21 was observed ; nine with breast , 5 colon , 5 lung , 5 ovarian and 5 hepatocellular carcinomas .
RESULTS : Mice bearing subcutaneous tumor of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS pretreated Lewis lung carcinoma cells showed > 50 % reduction in primary tumor volume and reduced spontaneous pulmonary metastases .
When stably over - expressed in maximal transformed SV - 52 cells , CK1delta mutants induced reversion to a minimal transformed phenotype by dominant - negative interference with endogenous wtCK1delta .
Among a myriad of biological activities described for xanthone derivatives , the anticancer activity is quite remarkable , but the molecular mechanism is not clearly resolved .
An earlier study showed that thrombospondin is expressed in benign prostatic hyperplasia ( BPH ) and high - grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia ( PIN ) but is absent in prostate cancer .
In these conditions , the rates of oxygen uptake , the CO2 evolution and the changes in the redox states of cytochromes indicate that glucose is preferred by Ehrlich ascites tumour cells as energy substrate .
Expression of osteoprotegerin and RANK ligand in breast cancer bone metastasis .
Since the prognosis of locally advanced and metastatic diseases is poor , increased understanding of the pathogenesis of NPC would be important for discovering novel markers for patients ' management .
The role of p53 in pigmentation , tanning and melanoma .
Heating and protease treatment of the stimulants reduced the VEGF enhancing levels in Ve and OMP in vitro .
VEGF is the key player in tumor angiogenesis .
There was , furthermore , no correlation between the heterogeneity of nm23 - H1 gene product expression and the patients survival .
Inhibition of the autocrine angiotensin system with the converting - enzyme inhibitor or the receptor antagonist also leads to increased expression of the proto - oncogene c - src : pp60c - src mRNA increased 7 - 11 - fold , c - src protein 3 - fold , and c - src kinase activity 2 - 3 - fold .
Finally , inhibition of Id - 1 expression results in G ( 2 ) / M accumulation of FGF - 2 - treated cells and delayed cell death .
Villani et al . define a key role for the IGF regulatory protein Igfbp2 in a genetic model of basal cell carcinogenesis driven by targeted constitutive activation of hedgehog signaling .
It is concluded that primary skin fibroblasts are able to survive for at least 8 weeks following intracerebral implantation and continue to synthesize collagen and fibronectin in vivo .
Given the dominant role of p21 in p53 cell cycle control , we crossed Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) mice onto a p21 - null background to determine whether p21 was required for maintaining chromosomal stability and delaying tumor onset .
No ocular or systemic bevacizumab - related side effects were observed .
PP mesh resulted in more fibrous encapsulation and stiffness than PF and PS prostheses .
However , re - expression of wt - p53 in EU - 4 cells could restore the doxorubicin - p53 - survivin pathway , resulting in significantly decreased survivin expression and increased apoptosis in these cells after doxorubicin treatment .
Further analysis revealed that M - CSF induced VEGF through the MAPK / ERK signaling pathway via the transcription factor , Sp1 .
Treatment with 25 mg / kg cyclopamine significantly attenuated BrdU incorporation in tumor cells threefold ( P less than 0 . 001 ) , in tumor related endothelial cells threefold ( P = 0 . 004 ) , and delayed tumor growth by 4 days .
Chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter - transcription factor II ( COUP - TFII ) plays an essential role in angiogenesis and development .
The Hedgehog pathway antagonist cyclopamine effectively reduced Shh - induced proliferation to control levels .
The effect of taxol , cobalt chloride and a heparin - steroid combination was tested in the fat tissue assay and compared to the validated human placental vein angiogenesis model ( HPVAM ) .
In vivo , tumors derived from cell clones expressing high levels of VEGF displayed significantly enhanced angiogenesis and more aggressive growth .
A small GTPase Arf6 primarily regulates recycling of plasma membrane components .
MPs also play a role in tumor angiogenesis .
Reduced expression of E - cadherin , an intercellular adhesion molecule of epithelial cells , has been reported to be associated with aggressive clinicopathological phenotypes in various cancers .
Our data suggest that p - XSC inhibits multiple signaling pathways in prostate cancer , likely accounting for the downstream effects on proliferation and apoptosis .
These data provide the first demonstration of IGF - I / II expression in the human lung in early gestation and indicate that the IGF family of growth factors , acting through the IGF - IR , is required as a survival factor during normal human lung vascularization .
The current study was conducted to characterize the effect of insulin on retinal VEGF gene expression in vitro and in vivo .
We examined the expression of nm23 - H1 gene product in surgically resected 46 pairs of primary lung cancers and metastatic lymph nodes by immunohistochemistry .
A synthetic tetracycline , doxycycline , inhibits migration of human MDA - MB - 435 breast adenocarcinoma cells through a reconstituted basement membrane ( Matrigel ) , an assay used as an in vitro surrogate for the in vivo process of tumor invasion through basement membranes .
Scrutiny of diagnostic indicators for verteporfin administration , including critical angiographic evaluation of lesion size and visual acuity , is essential to treatment success .
Here we present PU24FCl , a representative of the first class of designed Hsp90 inhibitors .
A validated assay in human fat tissue is needed to study the role of angiogenesis in human obesity .
In the aqueous fluid , VEGF levels were increased in diabetics ( mean values : 501 vs . 367 pg / ml ; p = 0 . 05 ) , compared to controls .
As the p53 gene is known to possess tumor suppressor activity , the functional loss of this gene may be a significant step in the development of a subset of HCCs .
In a third approach , cancer cells are induced to die by both apoptotic and necrotic events .
Latency was markedly increased and occurrence decreased in the p190 del C lines as compared with nonmutated p190 BCR / ABL transgenics .
To the best of our knowledge , this is the first report to show that UV - B can increase the aggressiveness of human cutaneous melanoma for growth and metastasis .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and its receptors are key regulators of the process of angiogenesis , which makes them attractive therapeutic targets .
The field is currently in ascendance due to two factors .
These results may have chemotherapeutic implications for using emodin to target HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing cancer cells .
In cell culture , the compound 317615 2HCl , a potent inhibitor of VEGF - stimulated HUVEC proliferation , was not very effective against MX - 1 breast cancer cells ( IC50 = 8 . 1 microM ) or SKOV - 3 ovarian carcinoma cells ( IC50 = 9 . 5 microM ) .
The increased expression of MMP - 9 was also shown in CNE1 - GL cells by Western blot analysis .
Protective function of von Hippel - Lindau protein against impaired protein processing in renal carcinoma cells .
Possible role of cyclooxygenase II in the acquisition of ovarian luteal function in rodents .
Such evidence indicates that MTSS1 as a multiple functional molecular player and has an important role in development , carcinogenesis and metastasis .
Furthermore , mouse embryonic fibroblasts required the presence of B16F0 cells to express Patched in a co - culture assay system .
Importantly , the addition of a neutralizing VEGF antibody abolished M - CSF - induced blood vessel formation .
These observations support the importance of ER in Ras - mediated cell transformation .
Using recombinant viruses that lack only one member of the cluster , we now show that all three BHRF1 miRNAs contribute to B - cell transformation .
Both cis - 9 , trans - 11 and trans - 10 , cis - 12 CLA isomers were effective in inhibiting angiogenesis in vitro in a dose - dependent fashion .
Angiogenic stimulation was macroscopically detectable , with engulfment of the samples , in 39 % and was evidenced by angiography in 59 % of the samples .
HYPOTHESIS : This study was designed to compare coronary collateral circulation ( CCC ) in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy ( PDR ) with that in patients without DR .
Evaluation of electrical stimulation for ischemic wound therapy : a feasibility study using the lapine wound model .
An intradermal angiogenesis assay was used to demonstrate that a 4 - day treatment with vandetanib ( 50 mg / kg / day ) was able to significantly inhibit blood vessel growth induced by both parental and high VEGF - expressing tumor cell clones .
[ Retinochoroidopathy after intravitreal anti - VEGF treatment ]
Angiogenesis : initiation and control .
p63 , a p53 homologue , is a myoepithelial cell marker in the normal mammary gland but p63 - positive neoplastic cells may be found in up to 11 % of invasive breast carcinomas .
Activation of the myc gene may play a role in transformation by promoting growth of the cells bearing the rearranged chromosomes .
CONCLUSION : The transfection of LMP1 can increase the expression of MMP - 9 in CNE1 cells .
A key factor in the response of cancer cells to chemotherapeutic drugs is the activation of the apoptotic pathway , a pathway that is often impaired in chemoresistant colon cancer cells .
There are examples of the aberrant expression of a homeobox gene causing leukemias in humans .
METHODOLOGY / PRINCIPAL FINDINGS : Examination of FOXO3a and phosphorylated - Akt ( P - Akt ) expression in breast cancer tissue microarrays showed nuclear FOXO3a was associated with lymph node positivity ( p = 0 . 052 ) , poor prognosis ( p = 0 . 014 ) , and P - Akt expression in invasive ductal carcinoma .
In this regard , inhibitors of these pathways have been shown to be effective antitumoral agents .
Previous studies reported that the Tumor Susceptibility Gene 101 ( TSG101 ) is upregulated in selected human malignancies , and the expression of exogenous Tsg101 was suggested to transform immortalized fibroblasts in culture .
CONCLUSIONS : This study provides evidence that EPOX induces glutathione depletion , ERK inactivation , and Mcl - 1 degradation on endothelial cells , which leads to inhibition of angiogenesis .
Tumour angiogenesis is an important factor for tumour growth and metastasis .
Angiogenesis - a novel therapeutic approach for ischemic heart disease .
B - cell lines established from two individuals with T - cell acute lymphocytic leukemia ( T - ALL ) express HLA - DR antigens , whereas the isogenic T - cells do not .
PEDF is an important negative regulator of angiogenic activity of aqueous humor .
The concept of the neurovascular unit emphasizes that common signals and substrates underlie the physiology and pathophysiology of neuronal and endothelial compartments in brain .
RESULTS : No correlation was found between tumor prognosis and EGFR , ICAM - 1 or Fas .
The aim of this study was to examine immunohistochemical expression of these adhesion molecules , focusing on early gastric carcinomas , and to investigate differences between differentiated and undifferentiated gastric cancer at the early phase of carcinogenesis .
Here , we investigated the expression of Ets - 1 during reendothelialization .
RESULTS : The average fibrinogen levels in patients with pancreatic carcinoma , ( 476 . 21 + / - 142 . 05 ) mg / dl , were significantly higher than in patients with cholangiolithiasis , ( 403 . 28 + / - 126 . 41 ) mg / dl ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Gastric cancer metastasized when ITCs were observed in the presence of VEGFR - 1 .
There were significant differences in s - VEGF between the RCC patients and the controls ( 207 . 3 + / - 32 . 9 vs . 71 . 5 + / - 9 . 1 pg / ml , mean + / - SE ) ( P less than 0 . 005 ) , between the tumor - bearing renal veins and the contralateral ones ( P less than 0 . 01 ) , between the pre - and post - nephrectomy situations ( P less than 0 . 01 ) and among the various parameters of tumor status such as tumor extent ( P less than 0 . 001 ) and existence of metastasis ( P less than 0 . 001 ) .
By 21 days post - injury , all activity had returned to near baseline level .
However , sVAP - 1 expression has not been described for gastric cancer .
Promotion of inflammation was also involved because lower TSP - 1 was able to up - regulate the adhesion molecules intercellular adhesion molecule - 1 and vascular cell adhesion molecule - 1 .
Recent studies have shown that 14 - 3 - 3zeta interacted with other key cellular proteins involved in the tumor development and progression .
To investigate the possibility that this regulatory connection contributes to Myb ' s oncogenicity , we expressed a dominant negative Myb in the myeloid leukemic cell line RI - 4 - 11 .
An additional anti - tumour effect was demonstrated when L - NAME was added to the synergistic combination of melphalan and TNF ( responses increased from 70 to 100 % ) .
Finally , we demonstrated that direct inhibition of key enzymes to glycogen metabolism and pentose phosphate pathways reduced HUVEC viability and migration .
These data demonstrate for the first time that hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 is significantly overexpressed in ovarian tumors and suggest LL - 37 may contribute to ovarian tumorigenesis through direct stimulation of tumor cells , initiation of angiogenesis and recruitment of immune cells .
With HL60 cells loss of the 55 kDa Glut - 1 band was observed and a band of 45 kDa appeared .
The percentage of cell apoptosis increased with the enhancing of concentration .
Injection of indomethacin , a nonselective COX inhibitor , on the day of ovulation and the following day decreased serum levels of progesterone , as did injection of the selective COX - II inhibitor NS - 398 .
Further , we implemented a noninvasive molecular imaging technique to facilitate the assessment of the metastatic process .
Their resistance to the anti - invasive action of TGFbeta was explained by the failure of TGFbeta to upregulate TIMPs and PAI - I , in contrast to the TGFbeta - induced upregulation noted in parental HTR8 cells .
Recently , it has been shown that expression of human HOX 2 genes is sequentially activated by RA beginning from Hox 2 . 9 at the 3 ' end of the HOX 2 cluster ( A . Simeone , D . Acampora , L . Arcioni , P . W . Andrews , E . Boncinelli , and F . Mavilio , Nature [ London ] 346 : 763 - 766 , 1990 ) .
Our findings support a novel role for pyruvate in metabolic signaling and suggest a mechanism by which high rates of aerobic glycolysis can promote the malignant transformation and survival of cancer cells .
The PCR products were then subject to XhoI digestion and to DNA sequencing analysis .
Mitochondrial complex II , or succinate dehydrogenase , is a key enzymatic complex involved in both the tricarboxylic acid ( TCA ) cycle and oxidative phosphorylation as part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain .
Dominant negative interference of transcription factor AP - 2 causes inhibition of ErbB - 3 expression and suppresses malignant cell growth .
[ Correlation between expression of vascular endothelial growth factor - C in tumor - associated macrophages and lymphatic metastasis in oral cancer ] .
To explore the gene expression changes that occur downstream of ELK - 1 dephosphorylation , we used a combination of temporal gene expression data and promoter element analyses .
From the above , we concluded that carcinostatic agents may increase the metastatic ability of cancer cells in patients with cancer .
The results suggest that somatostatin and somatostatin receptors may play a regulatory role for hemodynamic tumor - host interactions , possibly involving tumor stroma generation , tumor environment , angiogenesis and , particularly , vascular drainage of poorly differentiated neoplasms .
Mutation positive GIST showed higher frequency of adjacent tissue invasion , metastasis and recurrence as compared with mutation negative ones .
Since both cell lines remained non - tumorigenic in nude mice , these properties indicate that they attained a premalignant phenotype .
Is it possible that CD47 may also negatively affect cerebral endothelial cells ?
Clinical results induced by autologous bone marrow stem cells or angiogenic growth / differentiation factors in end - stage patients with PAD are summarized .
Furthermore , in comparison with native OPN , thrombin - cleaved OPN stimulated a greater rate of EC migration in vitro , which was additive to the increased migration associated with induction of alpha v beta 3 .
Targets identified in these novel and diverse FH - deficient models represent excellent potential candidates for further mechanistic investigation and therapeutic metabolic manipulation in tumors .
The expression of metallothionein - 1 ( Mt - 1 ) gene , which is regulated by GR , was induced significantly by the combination of DMI and FA , and enhanced significantly by pretreatment with FA but not DMI .
PEDF was found to be decreased in diabetics ( mean values : 2080 vs . 5780 ng / ml ; p = 0 . 04 ) compared to controls .
E - cadherin is a Ca ( 2 + ) - dependent cell - cell adhesion molecule , which is mainly expressed in epithelial cells .
Inhibitors of Akt and P13 - kinase , the upstream activator of Akt , block endothelial cell migration and disrupt paxillin localization to the focal adhesions after stimulation with VEGF and S1P .
The greatest potential for angiogenesis inhibitors may lie in their ability to combine safely with chemotherapy and radiotherapy .
These processes are regulated by numerous pro - angiogenic and anti - angiogenic growth factors .
Systematic proteomic studying of the mechanism of hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) metastasis remains challenging .
Many of these measures appear suitable for use in cancer prevention .
Furthermore , induction of MKP - 1 correlated with the inhibition of extracellular signal - regulated kinase ( ERK1 / 2 ) and c - Jun N - terminal kinase ( JNK ) activity , whereas p38 activity was minimally affected .
As coronary artery disease is the major cause of death in the developed societies and also an emerging health problem in developing countries like Bangladesh therapeutic angiogenesis may provide hope as a new treatment modality for ischemic heart disease with or in place of current therapies .
RESULTS : The mean sVAP - 1 level for cancer patients was significantly higher relative to controls , and decreased with disease progression .
Lysates of cells from the granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor ( GM - CSF ) - dependent myeloid leukemic cell line TF1 were separated into high molecular weight ( HMW ) pellets of intact DNA and supernatants of fragmented low MW ( LMW ) DNA , and the DNA purified from these fractions was quantified .
With a p53 - null cell line ( EU - 4 ) , although doxorubicin treatment arrested cells in G ( 2 ) / M , survivin expression was unchanged , and cells underwent only limited apoptosis .
In a second step , these parameters were further analyzed by hierarchical cluster analyses .
Papilloma formation was observed in both the DMBA - TPA - and DMBA - Cum - OOH - exposed animals , whereas skin carcinomas were found only in the DMBA - Cum - OOH - treated mice .
In addition , we showed that paclitaxel downregulated the phosphorylation of Akt in both HeLa and CaSki cells .
The average IMVD in positive and negative cervical lymphatic metastasis was ( 26 . 33 + / - 9 . 70 ) and ( 17 . 68 + / - 6 . 06 ) respectively , and the IMVD with positive lymphatic metastasis tumors was statistical significantly higher than those with negative cervical lymphatic metastasis tumors ( P less than 0 . 01 ) .
Although evidence suggesting a role for FAK in morphogenesis is accumulating , current uncertainties regarding its cytoplasmic location and its molecular interactions in vivo make it difficult to reach definitive conclusions regarding the significance of its contributions to developmental processes .
Furthermore , TGF - beta RII mutations in RER + tumors have been associated with decreased TGF - beta RII mRNA levels .
Because failure of endothelial cell apoptosis might lead to intimal proliferation and lack of reversibility of PHT , we investigated this and other key markers of vasoactivity and angiogenesis in subjects with PHT and CHD .
Regulation of the resident chromosomal copy of c - myc by c - Myb is involved in myeloid leukemogenesis .
BACKGROUND : CDC4 / FBXW7 , encoding a ubiquitin ligase , maps to 4q32 and has been implicated as a tumor suppressor gene and therapeutic target in many tumor types .
Because of this , and the virtual explosion of interest in pomegranate as a medicinal and nutritional product that has followed , this review is accordingly launched .
Mutation of p53 may play an important role in the high proliferative activity of tumors in the RSCM group and H . pylori infection may be closely related to carcinogenesis in patients with RSC .
Brk1 is required for cell proliferation and cell transformation by oncogenes .
Rise in lactate concentrations over baseline levels in the first 30 minutes of the glucose tolerance test were significantly higher in dogs with lymphoma ( P = 0 . 011 ) .
These results suggest that , in some immortalized and transformed cells , blocking the cellular signal transduction might trigger the induction of apoptosis .
The study presented here examined the ability of specific regions and activities of T antigen to modulate apoptosis in cells treated with the genotoxic agent 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) .
sDll4 similarly induced defective vascular response in tumor implants leading to reduced tumor growth .
Alteration of homeobox gene expression by N - ras transformation of PA - 1 human teratocarcinoma cells .
Bmi - 1 over - expression therefore has more pronounced effects in culture and does not appear to be sufficient to induce tumorigenesis in vivo .
To elucidate the role of free radicals and leukocytes in MTX - induced oxidative organ damage and the putative protective effect of L - carnitine ( L - Car ) , Wistar albino rats were administered a single dose of MTX ( 20 mg / kg ) followed by either saline or L - Car ( 500 mg / kg ) for 5 days .
LVI was correctly identified by D2 - 40 ( D2 - 40 + ) in 70 out of 254 tumors ( 28 % ) as compared to 40 tumors ( 16 % ) by routine HE staining ( HE + ) .
Zero to 10 daily fractions of electron - beam radiation ( 300 cGy each ) were delivered to the implant in the right groin , while the implant in the left groin served as a nonirradiated internal control .
Taken together , this study indicates that GSE is a well - tolerated and inexpensive natural VEGF inhibitor and could potentially be useful in cancer prevention or treatment .
These results suggest that prolonged treatment with tumor promoters alters the sensitivity of cells to activators of protein kinase C in a growth state - dependent manner .
Presymposium and postsymposium tests were administered , and respondent answers were compared between pediatric dentists and endodontists .
However , additional transfection of TrkA into SY5Y - p75 cells resulted in a significantly reduced rate of apoptosis even in the absence of NGF .
These results suggest that MnSO4 co - operates with overexpressed c - myc in inducing transformation , while 5 - azacytidine transformation is independent of c - myc overexpression and may involve alterations in the regulation of apoptosis .
Thus , we show that deregulation of CDK expression in the primitive oral epithelium plays a unique function , providing a selective advantage that gives rise to transgene - positive TA - like pituitary cells .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is a mitogen that acts exclusively on endothelial cells .
Use of iodine - 123 - alpha - methyl tyrosine ( 123I - IMT ) allows investigation of the amino acid transport rate in gliomas .
High expression of c - Ski has been found in some cancers , including gastric cancer .
PURPOSE : Spironolactone has recently been shown to have suppressive effects on several immunoactive and proinflammatory cytokines .
Molecular events leading to enhanced glucose transport in Rous sarcoma virus - transformed cells .
Many researchers have demonstrated that hematopoietic cells express many homeobox genes .
Curcumin , which is a widely used dietary pigment and spice , has been demonstrated to be an effective inhibitor of tumor promotion in mouse skin carcinogenesis .
The enhanced antiangiogenic effect of cRGD - HL was confirmed in Matrigel assay by showing the significant inhibition of bFGF - driven angiogenesis and blood vessel formation .
BACKGROUND : Angiogenesis is essential for tumor growth and relies on the production of angiogenic factors .
Electronmicroscopically , thrombus formation in the primary site prevented tumor invasion and metastasis formation .
The microvessel density ( MVD ) ) decreased from 42 . 4 + / - 4 . 8 to 10 . 5 + / - 3 . 2 per x 200 magnificetion microscopic field by CD10 staining and from 68 . 5 + / - 4 . 5 to 37 . 5 + / - 4 . 6 by CD31 staining , respectively ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
The members of an Epstein - Barr virus microRNA cluster cooperate to transform B lymphocytes .
OBJECTIVE : To document that a polyclonal antiserum to calretinin , a 29 - kd calcium - binding protein , consistently decorates normal and tumor mesothelial cells in cytologic preparations .
BACKGROUND : Opticin is a recently discovered glycoprotein present predominantly in the vitreous humour .
In spheroids , the glucose consumption ( 2 . 1 p mole / cell / h ) and lactate production ( 3 . 67 p mole / cell / h ) was nearly 2 - 3 fold higher than in monolayer cells ( 0 . 83 and 1 . 43 p mole / cell / h respectively ) .
Similarly , mechanical overload - induced CCN1 gene expression in vivo was associated with nuclear localization of MRTF - A and enrichment of the CCN1 promoter with both MRTF - A and acetylated histone H3 .
CONCLUSION : The majority ( 81 % ) of breast carcinomas show survivin expression which correlates with bcl - x , another antiapoptotic marker , and both markers tend to correlate with prognosis .
All of these results indicate that Akt / mTOR - dependent translation of HIF - 1alpha plays a critical role in the postirradiation up - regulation of intratumoral HIF - 1 activity in response to radiation - induced alterations of glucose and oxygen availability in a solid tumor .
Survivin expression in breast carcinoma : correlation with apoptosis and prognosis .
These results suggest that the role of WT1 is different depending on the type of leukemia cell in which it is expressed .
CSC - high C6 cell cultures also induced higher levels of endothelial cell proliferation and tubule organization in vitro compared with CSC - low cultures .
However , the increase in visual acuity is variable , probably due to the extent of RPE damage .
Since then , important progress has been made with respect to the understanding of the role of the Pten protein in the normal development of the brain as well as in the molecular pathogenesis of human gliomas .
CONCLUSIONS : These results provide support for the use of 2ME2 in combination with paclitaxel for the treatment of recurrent or advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
The expression of HMGA2 modulates the expression of hTERT , resulting in cells with enhanced telomerase activities and increased telomere length .
In EC109 cells , growth arrest was by induction of apoptosis , associated with downregulation of Bcl - 2 , but not Bax .
The non - invasive human melanoma cell line , IF6 , which does not express uPA , provided further confirmation of PAI - 1 and uPA ' s role as , upon transfection with uPA , this cell line attained an invasive phenotype , which was again attenuated by MAI - 12 .
Immunotargeting using an anti - IGF - IR neutralizing antibody on human fetal lung explants demonstrated a significant blockade of IGF - IR signaling .
RESULTS : Abnormal E - cadherin and beta - catenin staining correlated with depth of tumour invasion in differentiated - type tumours .
Therefore , this enhancing effect does not result from an idiosyncrasy of the EBV genome but rather reflects a general property of these miRNAs .
Systematic proteomic analysis of human hepotacellular carcinoma cells reveals molecular pathways and networks involved in metastasis .
The expression of JUN , ERBB2 , MYC , cyclin D , PCNA , bFGF , VEGF and Hsp70 proteins revealed a positive correlation to lymph node involvement .
Analysis of gene expression revealed increased expression of ANGPT1 , ANGPT2 , platelet - derived growth factor - B , placental growth factor , and VEGF mRNA in AdCA5 - injected eyes .
TP is not only expressed in tumor cells but also in tumor surrounding tissues , such as tumor infiltrating macrophages .
VEGF protein was higher in alinidine - treated rats than in controls after 2 weeks and increased further after 3 weeks of treatment .
In spleen , tyrosinase , TRP - 1 and SV40 Tag were expressed and tyrosinase was enzymatically active .
Despite an increase in the activation of these signal transducers , the mammary gland of females expressing exogenous Tsg101 developed normally throughout the reproductive cycle .
We analyzed the relative abundance of ST3 and BM - 40 / SPARC transcripts by Northern blot , and their distribution by in situ hybridization , in normal mucosa , benign adenomas , and primary colorectal adenocarcinomas and their liver metastases .
Detection of lymphovascular invasion in early breast cancer by D2 - 40 ( podoplanin ) : a clinically useful predictor for axillary lymph node metastases .
By means of intravital microscopy , tumor necrosis factor alpha - stimulated leukocyte - vessel wall interactions were studied in ear skin microvessels of nude mice bearing small human LS174T colon carcinomas and in C57Bl / 6 mice bearing murine B16F10 melanomas .
The interaction of VEGF and its receptors at gene and protein levels in neuroblastoma remains widely unknown .
Glutamine consumption in the presence of glucose was higher than with glutamine alone .
In vivo , ethanol exposure caused both decreased angiogenesis and increased hypoxia in wounds .
In all patients , a major and consistent induction of p53 target genes was seen .
Expression of ING4 is significantly reduced in gliomas as compared with normal human brain tissue , and the extent of reduction correlates with the progression from lower to higher grades of tumours .
These results suggest that the tumor - bearing animal , even prior to significant cachexia , has an excess demand for energy , the provision of which may be a significant factor in malignant cachexia .
The cells on 15 - microm wide strips completely aligned in the direction of the strip , and had significantly lower shape index than those in all other groups .
Transfection with TSP - 1 and purified TSP - 1 added to NIH3T3 cells did not alter the protein levels of alpha - SMA and desmin but significantly inhibited matrix metalloprotease - 2 activity .
However , the high mortality observed in the folate - deficient group precludes a definitive conclusion concerning the effect of folate deficiency on UC - associated colorectal carcinogenesis in this model .
Pbx1 is a downstream target of Evi - 1 in hematopoietic stem / progenitors and leukemic cells .
In DNA from the T - cells not expressing DR alpha mRNA , all of the potential HpaII sites within the BglII fragment appeared to be methylated .
Fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 - positive fibroblasts provide a suitable microenvironment for tumor development and progression in esophageal carcinoma .
This is a randomized , open label , prospective study that examined the effect of preventive zoledronic acid treatment on the development of bone metastases in patients with recurrent solid tumors , without bone metastases at the time of randomization .
HGF constitutively produced VEGF and levels were significantly enhanced ( P less than 0 . 01 ) by stimulation with Ve and OMP from A . actinomycetemcomitans and P . gingivalis at concentrations of 10 microg / ml or higher .
PTTG induced S100A4 and galectin - 1 mRNA and protein expression as assessed by Western blot and reverse transcription - PCR .
The regulation of cell survival functions by Pak1 - DLC1 interaction represents a novel mechanism by which a signaling kinase might regulate the cancerous phenotypes .
Prior to the appearances of frank neoplasms , volumetric changes in DMBA only and radiation only groups were similar , while volume changes in DMBA + radiation groups increased slowly to a peak later than in other groups and then declined steadily to levels similar to the radiation only group .
New bone formation was detected to be more rapid considering histologic parameters , in groups 3 and 4 at 4th and 16th weeks . Study demonstrates that PRP and PPP might have favorable effects on bone healing .
One of the clones ( clone 1510 ) contained the gene encoding latent membrane protein ( LMP ) .
The N - myc proto - oncogene encodes a transcription factor which regulates cell growth and differentiation .
This technique also revealed the inhibitory effect of the NOS inhibitor N ( G ) - iminoethyl - L - ornithine in VEGF - mediated in vivo angiogenesis .
With U937 cells , tunicamycin treatment resulted in the appearance of a 30 - 40 kDa band and increased staining of a 45 kDa band .
The selected peptide was tested for the antitumor activity against mildly aggressive xenografted prostate carcinoma and highly aggressive renal cell carcinoma .
PURPOSE : Pigment epithelial - derived factor ( PEDF ) is a potent angiogenesis inhibitor with multiple other functions , some of which enhance tumor growth .
[ 13C ] Lactate production from [ 13C ] glucose , with no detectable uptake of [ 13C ] alanine , indicated that energy production in H5 spheroids was primarily via glycolysis .
In this review focus will be on OPN in bone and its role in adhesion , migration and cell survival .
Furthermore , the expression of PECAM - 1 promoted filopodia formation and increased the protein expression levels of Cdc42 , a Rho GTPase that is known to promote the formation of filopodia .
Careful selection of patients may be necessary before designing therapeutic strategies using either p53 or E2F - 1 as a therapeutic tools for glioma patients .
A two sided correlation between the expression of TKTL1 and LDH5 could be shown ( p = 0 . 002 ) within the overall cohort as well as for each grading and pN group .
Endothelial cell migration and vascular endothelial growth factor expression are the result of loss of breast tissue polarity .
The transmembrane peptidase prostate - specific membrane antigen ( PSMA ) is universally upregulated in the vasculature of solid tumors , but its functional role in tumor angiogenesis has not been investigated .
Previously , we reported that topical exposure to Cum - OOH caused formation of free radicals and oxidative stress in the skin of vitamin E - deficient mice .
Also , rk - 2 diminished the expression of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 in the mouse lung which induces tumor metastasis and angiogenesis .
Directed EC migration is a central step in this process and depends on cellular signaling cascades that initiate and control the structural rearrangements .
[ Intraepithelial neoplasm of the uterine cervix and angiogenesis : morphologic study ]
These results suggest that CYR61 and CTGF may play a role in the progression of gliomas ; their levels at diagnosis may have prognostic significance ; and these proteins might serve as valuable targets for therapeutic intervention .
CONCLUSION : Exposure of clonal B lymphocytes from patients with CLL to simvastatin decreases viability significantly by the induction of apoptosis .
Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest is found at the end of this article .
We measured serum IL - 8 and urine IL - 8 levels in patients with NHL , and we compared the concentrations with those of control individuals .
The frequent expression of cytolytic effector markers in the CD2 + surface CD3 - CD56 + putative NK - cell lymphomas lends further support to their probable NK cell origin .
These studies indicate that Shh peptide produced by melanoma cells induces Patched expression in fibroblasts .
The mutant which retains only the central region of the v - fos protein ( Met111 - Ile206 ) have both activities , but the mutants which have deletions in this region , and one of the mutants that has a four amino acid insertion in it , lost both activities .
The current results may have an impact on the effectiveness of clinical immunotherapeutic treatment protocols , because immune effector cells may not be able to enter tumor tissue .
Excessive vascular development and blood vessel remodeling appears in psoriasis , rheumatoid arthritis , diabetic retinopathy and solid tumors formation .
Perlecan is a ubiquitous pericellular proteoglycan ideally placed to mediate cell signaling events controlling migration , proliferation , and differentiation .
Metastatic lesions were confirmed by immunohistochemistry .
The cohort examined was relatively small and with larger patient numbers , MDM2 overexpression may emerge as a more significant covariate .
We previously described the isolation of non - tumorigenic revertants from mutagenized populations of v - fos - transformed Rat - 1 cells ( Zarbl et al . , 1987 ) .
In human colon carcinoma Colo205 and HT29 xenografts grown in human endosialin - transgenic mice , endosialin expression was largely confined to NG2 - expressing perivascular cells and not CD31 - positive endothelial cells .
Recently VEGF - B and VEGF - C , two new VEGF family members , have been identified that bind to the tyrosine kinase receptors flt - 1 ( VEGFR1 ) , KDR ( VEGFR2 ) , and flt - 4 ( VEGFR3 ) .
These models may have clinically relevant implications , particularly for the tailoring of therapeutic strategies targeting telomerase .
Immunohistochemical staining of the tumors demonstrated a decreased number of blood vessels in the treatment group versus the controls .
We have reported important benefits and survival with an immunotherapy schedule in patients with endocrine - dependent breast cancer and distant metastases .
These results demonstrate endogenous gene regulation by BAG - 1L by potentiating nuclear hormone receptor function and suggest a role for BAG - 1L in 24 - hydroxylase regulation of vitamin D metabolism and the cellular response of oral keratinocytes to 1alpha , 25 - dihydroxyvitamin D3 .
Sequencing of exons 5 through 8 of the p53 gene revealed no mutations , nor were mutations detected in the N - or K - ras protooncogenes in four of the carcinomas and their respective metastatic deposits .
These results strongly suggest that Dss1 is a TPA - inducible gene that may play an important role in the early stages of skin carcinogenesis .
14 diabetics with chronic nonhealing wounds which did not respond to treatment for at least 3 months were treated by HBO .
Sci .
Contemporary perspectives on vital pulp therapy : views from the endodontists and pediatric dentists .
This work is again extremely significant for patients worldwide , as Dvorak ' s scientific research is leading his colleagues all over the world to examine how to treat a tumor through its blood supply .
Downstream targets of Plexin C1 signaling in human melanocytes include cofilin and LIM kinase II , both of which are critical mediators of cell adhesion and migration .
Bone destruction is primarily mediated by osteoclastic bone resorption , and cancer cells stimulate the formation and activation of osteoclasts next to metastatic foci .
Genotypes of 155 patients with cervical cancer and 160 healthy control subjects were determined using polymerase chain reaction - based restriction fragment length polymorphism ( PCR - RFLP ) .
HSP27 is implicated in protein - protein interactions such as folding , translocation , and prevention of inappropriate protein aggregation .
Hypermethylation of the HRK promoter alone was not associated with overall outcome , but relapse - free survival was significantly shorter .
Low density lipoprotein receptor - related protein - 1 ( LRP - 1 ) is a catabolic receptor for extracellular matrix ( ECM ) structural proteins and for proteins that bind to ECM .
Androgen signaling through androgen receptor ( AR ) is critical for prostate tumorigenesis .
Many of their functions suggest that they play important roles in cancers .
RESULTS : The maximum tolerated dose of galectin - 3C in nude mice was determined to be > 125 mg / kg without overt adverse effects .
BMSVTs immortalized with hTERT formed large colonies in vitro and small transient tumours in vivo .
We investigated how inhibition of glucose metabolism could affect death receptor - mediated apoptosis in human tumor cells of diverse origin .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , fibroblast growth factor ( FGF ) , recombinant proteins and bone marrow stem cells are currently used therapeutic stimulators for angiogenesis .
This low glucose utilization is in contrast to the high [ 11C ] methionine uptake and the malignancy of these tumors .
In addition , a reduction in tumor volume of Grm1 - mouse - melanocytic - allografts was detected in the presence of small interfering AKT2 RNA ( siAKT2 ) .
In the embryonic stem cells homozygous for these hypomorphic Apc alleles , the level of the APC protein was inversely correlated with both the beta - catenin accumulation and beta - catenin / T - cell factor transcriptional activity .
Interleukin - 1 ( IL - 1 ) synthesis in the brain is stimulated by mechanical injury and IL - 1 mimics some effects of injury , such as gliosis and neovascularization .
CONCLUSION : Endostatin gene therapy mediated by adenoviral vector efficiently induces expression of endostatin in vivo , and inhibits the growth and metastasis of tumor .
No other structural changes in serum were observed for cholesterol - based lipoplexes .
Fibroblast growth factor - 2 ( FGF - 2 ) has been reported to play multiple roles in different biological processes during development of the central nervous system ( CNS ) .
RESULTS : All patients completed therapy and tolerability was good .
These findings elucidate the molecular mechanisms of PTTG overexpression in promoting tumor metastasis , whereby up - regulated PTTG modulates expression and secretion of metastasis - related factors to facilitate cell motility .
For distraction of the human mandible in elderly patients , a distraction rate of 0 . 5 mm / day seems beneficial .
FGF2 - stimulated microvessel formation was inhibited by sequestration of FGF2 via addition of soluble FGF receptor ( FGFR ) chimera protein or anti - FGF2 antibodies .
Angiogenesis - dependent diseases result when new blood vessels either grow excessively or insufficiently .
We conclude that CD47 signaling can negatively affect the viability and function of cerebral endothelial cells , further supporting the notion that CD47 may be a potential neurovascular target for stroke and brain injury .
We demonstrated that Evi - 1 represses TGF - beta signaling and antagonizes its growth - inhibitory effects .
The prototype system proved relatively easy to operate .
Pten signaling in gliomas .
Many cellular and biochemical effects of curcumin in mouse fibroblast cells have been reported , such as inhibition of protein kinase C ( PKC ) activity induced by phorbol 12 - myristate 13 - acetate treatment , inhibition of tyrosine protein kinase activity , and inhibition of arachidonic acid ( AA ) metabolism .
The purpose of the present study was to measure the MVD and VEGF expression in a cohort of patients with betel - associated OSCC and to evaluate for possible clinicopathologic correlations .
Regulation of skin microvasculature angiogenesis , cell migration , and permeability by a specific inhibitor of PKCalpha .
In cervical cancer cells , paclitaxel induced apoptosis through an intrinsic pathway with prior G2 / M arrest .
The lead oxide group revealed extensive growth of blood vessels from the latissimus graft into the experimental fat pad .
Our purpose was to examine human colon cancers for inactivation of two candidate metastasis suppressor genes , nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 , either by mutation or by loss of gene transcription .
Suppression of lung tumor growth and metastasis in mice by adeno - associated virus - mediated expression of vasostatin .
Nitric oxide ( NO ) is an important molecule in regulating tumour blood flow and stimulating tumour angiogenesis .
The p75 receptor belongs to the tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) family of death receptors and has been suggested as a receptor that mediates apoptosis in neuronal and NB cells .
In breast cancer , there are conflicting studies questioning the role of angiogenin .
CONCLUSION : Loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 appears to play a role in both EOGC and conventional gastric carcinogenesis , and c - myc overexpression is likely to be an important oncogenic consequence of CDC4 / FBXW7 loss .
Osteoclast - like cells and tartarate resistant acid phosphatase ( TRAP ) activities were then quantitated .
We also examined islet endotheliuml / oxidative stress ( OS ) / inflammation - related gene expression , islet vascularization and fibrosis after treatment with the interleukin - 1 ( IL - 1 ) receptor antagonist ( IL - 1Ra ) .
RESULTS : IL - 12 - expressing RM - 9 prostate carcinoma cells transplanted into C57BL / J6 mice grew more slowly than control RM - 9 cells and vector control RM - 9 - Luc cells .
Regulation of transforming growth factor - beta signaling and vascular diseases .
However , the development of cervical cancer is a multistep process that cannot be explained simply by infection with specific types of HPV .
After GM - CSF or IL - 3 , a 1 . 2 - to 2 . 4 - fold increase in S - phase cells was observed in nine of 14 GM - CSF and seven of 11 IL - 3 cases .
The cells were labeled with luciferase , a bioluminescence imaging reporter gene , to enable optical imaging .
In addition , p21 - or p16 - mediated growth arrest did not protect glioma cells from E2F - 1 - mediated apoptosis .
Our study indicates that 1 ) Ca2 + entry in pulmonary endothelial cells through SOCs produces cell shape change that is dependent on site - specific rearrangement of the microfilamentous cytoskeleton and 2 ) Trp1 may be a component of pulmonary endothelial SOCs .
Angiotensin II induces soluble fms - Like tyrosine kinase - 1 release via calcineurin signaling pathway in pregnancy .
These diagrams show the relative rates of glycolysis , the tricarboxylic acid cycle , electron transport , and the malate - aspartate shuttle in these tumors .
Both STX243 and STX140 were capable of retarding the growth of MDA - MB - 231 xenograft tumours ( 72 and 63 % , respectively ) , whereas no inhibition was observed for animals treated with 2 - MeOE2 .
Roles of cell adhesion molecules in tumor angiogenesis induced by cotransplantation of cancer and endothelial cells to nude rats .
BACKGROUND : The PI3K - Akt signal pathway plays a key role in tumorigenesis and the development of drug - resistance .
High levels of allele loss also were detected for chromosomes 8q ( 4 of 9 ; 44 % ) and 16p ( 5 of 6 ; 83 % ) and may indicate the presence of additional cellular genes whose functional loss is important in the development of HCCs .
The mechanism of TP induction is not yet completely clear , but TNF , IL10 and other cytokines have been clearly shown to induce its expression .
Overexpression of SEMA3B and SEMA3F reduced focal adhesion kinase phosphorylation and matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and matrix metalloproteinase - 9 expression in ovarian cancer cells .
One of these mechanisms is NF - kappaB pathway activation which in turn may contribute to tumor formation by providing anti - apoptotic survival signals to the epithelial cells .
Atypically , abundant capillaries were observed ; however , the cystic proliferation of epithelioid cells with vacuoles and immunohistochemical profile of the epithelioid element were consistent with hepatic adenomatoid tumour .
Since tumor cell - derived TSP - 1 has the potential to promote angiogenesis in the tumor microenvironment , it could be a potential target for breast cancer therapy .
In contrast , knockdown of Pbx1 did not impair bone marrow transformation by E2A / HLF or AML1 / ETO , suggesting that Pbx1 is specifically required for the maintenance of bone marrow transformation mediated by Evi - 1 .
Compared to cRGDyK and HL , cRGD - HL has high binding affinity to purified alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) integrin .
This growth factor system exerts multiple physiologic effects on the vasculature through both endocrine and autocrine / paracrine mechanisms .
Additional activities of p53 in non - stressed cells tune up the antioxidant defense mechanisms reducing the probability of mutations caused by DNA oxidation under conditions of daily stresses .
The mechanism of this potent collaboration is elucidated in this study of Runx2 / MYC mice .
It is possible that the suppressive effect of GA on MMP - 2 / 9 might involve the inhibition of NF - kappaB activity .
Whereas agents seem promising in the test tube , clinical trials often fail due to unfavorable pharmacokinetics , poor delivery , low local concentrations , and limited accumulation in the target cell .
The coagulative parameters including the prothrombin time , activated partial thromboplastin time , and fibrinogen levels were collected and studied retrospectively .
Synthetic vascular prostheses are foreign bodies , so that blood coagulation can occur on their luminal surfaces , causing graft occlusion very frequently in prostheses of small diameter .
Agents that inhibit Hsp90 function hold significant promise in cancer therapy .
PURPOSE : The staging of colorectal cancer , therapeutic decision making in the management of early and advanced colorectal cancer , and dilemmas posed by drug - related toxicity are discussed .
The B ( 1 ) R appeared either as cytoplasmic dots or labeling on the apical cell membrane of the cells composing the epithelia with intestinal metaplasia ( 24 / 24 ; 100 % ) and carcinoma in situ ( 10 / 10 ; 100 % ) and in the epithelial cells of adenomas .
We further show that Stat3 is phosphorylated at S727 in 65 % of malignant prostate tissues ( n = 20 ) relative to 25 % of normal prostate tissues ( n = 4 ) .
Modulating metastasis by a lymphangiogenic switch in prostate cancer .
CONCLUSION : Our results strongly support a role for PI3K / Akt / mTOR pathway in PET , which ties in with the fact that mTOR inhibitors have reached phase III trials in neuroendocrine tumors .
One of the angiostatin isoforms , that is , angiostatin 4 . 5 ( AS4 . 5 ) , consisting of plasminogen kringle 1 to 4 and a most part of kringle 5 , is produced by autoproteolysis and present in human plasma .
Moreover , HMGA2 knockdown by short hairpin HMGA2 in HepG2 cells leads to progressive telomere shortening and a concurrent decrease of steady - state hTERT mRNA levels , attenuating their ability to form colonies in soft agar .
Regulation of the composition of the extracellular matrix by low density lipoprotein receptor - related protein - 1 : activities based on regulation of mRNA expression .
Interestingly , the level of cyclin D3 protein , known as an activator of G ( 1 ) to S phase transition in the cell cycle , was aberrantly high in cells overexpressing PLD1 and PLD2 compared with control cells .
This compound inhibits cellular ATP production owing to its action on glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation ; however , the specific metabolic steps and mechanisms of 3 - BrPA action in human hepatocellular carcinomas , particularly its effects on mitochondrial energetics , are poorly understood .
Levels of expression of CYR61 and CTGF are prognostic for tumor progression and survival of individuals with gliomas .
Organic peroxides , widely used in the chemical and pharmaceutical industries , can act as skin tumor promoters and cause epidermal hyperplasia .
Induction of TSP - 1 mRNA by TGF - beta was attenuated by c - Ski in vitro , and expression of TSP - 1 mRNA was decreased in tumors expressing c - Ski in vivo .
Therapeutic angiogenesis : a complex problem requiring a sophisticated approach .
Apart from the vascular grade , none of the other factors examined was statistically related to lymph node metastasis ( P less than 0 . 0001 ) .
We defined the role of c - Myc in cancer cell sensitivity to vinblastine ( VLB ) using human colon cancer cells : LoVo wild - type or transfected with a plasmid containing the human c - myc gene in antisense orientation ( LoVo - mycANS ) .
Human pituitary tumor transforming gene ( PTTG ) overexpression correlates with metastasis in multiple tumors , and yet its molecular mechanisms of action remain elusive .
However , unlike tumor invasion , trophoblast invasion of the uterus is stringently controlled in situ by local molecules such as transforming growth factor ( TGF ) beta .
CONCLUSIONS : VEGF - A ( 165 ) is one of the major angiogenesis regulators among the ligands ' family of VEGF , whereas its receptors KDR , and most probably Flt - 1 , may contribute to a poor prognosis ( angiogenic ) phenotype , as indicated by their upregulated MRNA levels in stage III neuroblastoma .
The activation of Na + transport is due to the exchange of protons formed via glucose conversion into lactate for Na + , i . e . , to the stimulation of the Na + / H + - antiport .
We postulate that endoscopic observation is valuable in investigating the development of gastric carcinoma , and microvascular structure and lectin binding pattern may be useful to demonstrate the mechanism of growth of gastric carcinoma .
In addition , we report here the identification of two RNA transcripts of type II - like tumor HK of approximately 5 . 5 and approximately 4 . 0 kb in these cancer cells lines , including muscle - derived L6 myoblast cells .
Normal and transforming functions of RUNX1 : a perspective .
In this work , we show that LPA stimulates invasion of primary ovarian cancer cells , but not ovarian epithelial or borderline ovarian tumor cells , although these benign cells indeed respond to LPA in cell migration .
In the distraction group , a significant postoperative increase in MMP - 1 , bFGF , ALP , and BAP could be observed during the lengthening and the consolidation period when compared with the baseline levels .
Prolonged culture led to the implantation of cancer cells into the monolayer of the F - 2 cells , which was mediated mainly by alpha ( 3 ) beta ( 1 ) - integrin .
Heparin was surface immobilized via covalent conjugation .
We also analysed the association of patients ' prognosis with clinical parameters and the histological classification of the carcinomatous component .
Differential proteomic analysis of human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line metastasis - associated proteins .
Nevertheless , patients who achieved complete remission ( CR ) had a significantly lower median PE level compared to those who did not .
We hypothesized that 1 ) MCT expression in malignant tumors may differ from normal tissue in quantity , isoform , or both ; and 2 ) silencing MCT expression would induce intracellular acidification , resulting in decreased proliferation and / or increased cell death .
Finally , intraperitoneal injection or oral administration of HTPB efficiently inhibited A549 xenograft tumor growth in vivo without side effects .
Our aim was to investigate the role of tumor lymphangiogenesis during metastasis .
Glucose decreased the rate of glutamine utilization by 34 % .
These results indicated that Hes genes cooperatively regulate intestinal development and homeostasis and raised the possibility that Hes1 is a promising target to induce the differentiation of tumor cells .
However , its role in tumor - associated lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic metastasis remains unclear .
Little , however , is known about the inhibitory mechanisms .
Autotaxin ( ATX ) , an exo - nucleotide pyrophosphatase and phosphodiesterase , was originally isolated as a potent stimulator of tumor cell motility .
Increased urokinase plasminogen activator ( uPA ) levels are increased in a number of malignancies and have been correlated with decreased disease - free interval and decreased overall survival .
Platelet - derived endothelial cell growth - factor ( PD - ECGF ) is similar to the pyrimidine enzyme thymidine phosphorylase ( TP ) .
We have used retroviral - mediated gene delivery to effect sustained autocrine expression of TIMP - 3 in murine neuroblastoma and melanoma tumor cells in order to further examine the ability of TIMPs to inhibit angiogenesis in vivo .
Our results indicate that HCMV elevates cellular p53 levels on the order of 10 - to 20 - fold in infected fibroblasts .
Finally , CD47 signaling may suppress angiogenesis because 4N1K significantly inhibited endothelial cell migration and tube formation in vitro .
[ Clinical significance of interleukin - 6 ( IL - 6 ) as a prognostic factor of cancer disease ]
In the present study this region is shown to contain a gene encoding a protein of 40 kilodaltons in HTLV - I and 37 kilodaltons in HTLV - II .
Key players in this process are the hypoxia - inducible factors ( HIF - 1alpha to 3alpha ) .
Tumours from younger patients had a higher grade of angiogenesis ( P = 0 . 05 ) .
This model will be useful for understanding mechanisms underlying vascular and angiogenic neoplasias , as well as for testing drugs designed to curtail aberrant EC growth .
To further clarify the influence of mechanical strain on the regulation of bone formation , bone growth factors ( insulin - like growth factor [ IGF ] I , IGF binding protein [ IGFBP ] 3 , transforming growth factor [ TGF ] beta1 , and basic FGF [ bFGF ] ) , bone matrix degrading enzymes ( matrix - metalloproteinases [ MMPs ] 1 , 2 , and 3 ) , human growth hormone ( hGH ) , and bone formation markers ( ALP , bone - specific ALP [ BAP ] , and osteocalcin [ OC ] ) have been analyzed in serum samples from 10 patients in each group pre - and postoperatively .
The appearance of lipid - bloated subretinal MCs was drusen - like on funduscopy of senescent mice , and CX3CR1 - dependent MC accumulation was associated with an exacerbation of experimental CNV .
These results suggest the possibility that BV may exert an anti - tumor effect on human lung cancer .
Antioxidant N - acetyl - l - aspartate ( NAC ) decreased vessels number in tumors formed by cells with inactivated p53 and inhibited their growth .
These results indicate that specific HDAc inhibitors may be useful in the treatment of Evi - 1 - induced neoplastic tumors , including myeloid leukemias .
The prognostic value of PE was also evaluated by dividing MDS / AML patients into high and low PE groups using the median PE level of normal controls as the cut - off .
In murine models , the latter produces a hyperproliferative response to G - CSF , confers resistance to apoptosis , and enhances cell survival .
Furthermore , Ang II stimulated sFlt - 1 production in a dose - and time - dependent manner from human villous explants and cultured trophoblasts but not from endothelial cells , suggesting that trophoblasts are the primary source of sFlt - 1 during pregnancy .
Microvascular corrosion casts of caruncles from non - pregnant and pregnant doe goats at 4 , 7 , 10 , 13 , 16 , and 18 weeks were examined with scanning electron microscopy .
RNA encoding glucokinase ( GK ) , the high - Km HK isozyme , was found only in cancer cells originating from liver and pancreas , which express GK under normal conditions .
Here we show that heterozygous disruption of beclin 1 increases the frequency of spontaneous malignancies and accelerates the development of hepatitis B virus - induced premalignant lesions .
In contrast , the growth of tumors requires constant vascular growth and remodeling in order for solid tumors to grow beyond 1 - 2 mm ( 3 ) in size .
S - 100beta is also an independent prognostic marker .
Another interesting cell type is the endothelial progenitor cell ( EPC ) , whose numbers increase in the presence of vascular damage .
hADA3 binds selectively to the high - risk HPV E6 proteins and only to immortalization - competent E6 mutants .
Endosialin / TEM 1 / CD248 is a pericyte marker of embryonic and tumor neovascularization .
The mode of Ca2 + entry regulating cell shape is unknown .
Taken together , these results lend great support to use PDGFRbeta antagonists in combinations with other antitumor and / or anti - angiogenic agents in the treatment of a variety of cancers .
In unchallenged endothelial cells , fibrillar collagen induced robust capillary morphogenesis .
They were treated with HBO in 56 + / - 10 consecutive HBO sessions .
PURPOSE : Members of the transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - beta superfamily play critical roles in regulation of various cellular functions .
More recent data have demonstrated the existence of two human nm23 gene homologues , nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 , and have shown that deletion of nm23 - H1 alleles occurs in some colon carcinomas associated with poor prognosis .
s - VEGF in peripheral blood samples was analyzed in 40 RCC patients and 40 patients without cancer ( controls ) using a sandwich enzyme - linked immunoassay .
Enhanced endothelial cell growth and reduced platelet adhesion were observed on the perlecan coated grafts when compared to uncoated controls implanted in the same sheep ( n = 5 ) .
Because the intravenously injected lipoplexes migrated within seconds to lungs , we checked whether the effects of immediate contact with serum correlate with lung lipofection efficiency of different DOTAP - based formulations .
c - erb B2 overexpression decreases the benefit of adjuvant tamoxifen in early - stage breast cancer without axillary lymph node metastases .
We report one case of advanced gastric cancer with lung and lymph node metastases that completely responded to TS - 1 .
In recent years , investigating the metabolic changes within cancer cells has been a rapidly growing area .
A low - Km , mitochondrial type II - like tumor HK is described as the predominant form in hepatomas .
However , the inhibition was much less effective for those cells expressing basal levels of p185neu under the same conditions .
The results suggest that chronic exposure to high concentration of TGF - beta promotes the spontaneous neoplastic transformation of cultured rat liver epithelial cells , and that this process may represent one of the mechanisms of cellular adaptation for induction of the multidrug - resistant phenotype during the carcinogenesis of epithelial cells .
In this report , we demonstrate that murine bone marrow contains endothelial progenitors , which arise from a cell with self - renewing capacity , and can integrate into tumor microvasculature , albeit at a very low frequency .
Here we provide evidence that lactate and pyruvate regulate hypoxia - inducible gene expression independently of hypoxia by stimulating the accumulation of hypoxia - inducible Factor 1alpha ( HIF - 1alpha ) .
Concordance in topo I staining between primary and lymph node metastases was observed in 33 of 42 cases ( P = . 029 ) .
While in control specimens are ara - C dose - dependent increase in 3H - ara - C uptake was accompanied by a corresponding rise in intracellular ara - C - 5 ' triphosphate ( ara - CTP ) levels , ara - CTP concentrations were not increased after GM - CSF or IL - 3 exposure , resulting in a higher ara - C to ara - CTP ratio over controls .
Topoisomerase I protein expression in primary colorectal cancer and lymph node metastases .
Transforming alleles of Notch direct the expression of truncated proteins that primarily consist of N ( ic ) and are not tethered to the plasma membrane .
Inhibition by retinoic acid of type IV collagenolysis and invasion through reconstituted basement membrane by metastatic rat mammary adenocarcinoma cells .
Expression of two type II - like tumor hexokinase RNA transcripts in cancer cell lines .
Here , we show that a portion of laminin - 332 , termed G45 , which is proteolytically removed and absent in normal tissues , is prominently expressed in most human SCC tumors and plays an important role in human SCC tumorigenesis .
The synthesis and / or the excretion of this factor in a medium is controlled by the A gene .
Thus , tumors behave like wounds that fail to heal .
Expanded polytetrafluoroethylene ( PTFE ) sheets were implanted adjacent to both superficial epigastric vascular pedicles of 63 rats distributed into 7 groups ( n = 7 ) that differed with respect to dose and timing of irradiation .
To investigate the potential role of BI - 1 in promoting cell growth and tumorigenesis , in the present study we overexpressed the BI - 1 gene in NIH3T3 cells using the lentivirus - mediated gene expression system .
Our data suggest that low oxygen upregulates FGFR1 expression in embryonic aorta in vitro and renders it more responsive to FGF2 .
There was no correlation of survivin with bcl - 2 or bax expression , or with other prognostic parameters ( age , tumor size , histologic type , histologic grade , nodal status , and tumor stage ) ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
Taken together , our results suggest that the induction of de novo lipid synthesis by androgen requires the transcriptional up - regulation of HK2 and PFKFB2 , and phosphorylation of PFKFB2 generated by the PI3K / Akt signalling pathway to supply the source for lipogenesis from glucose in prostate cancer cells .
However , most current anti - VEGF agents often cause some side effects when given chronically .
Forty male golden hamsters were divided into four equal groups .
Incidence of BRAF p . Val600Glu and p . Val600Lys mutations in a consecutive series of 183 metastatic melanoma patients from a high incidence region .
In T - cell ALL with t ( 10 ; 14 ) translocation , the HOX 11 gene is deregulated .
To evaluate the ability of AdCMV . VEGF165 to function in vivo , either AdCMV .
In contrast , both HER2 ( 4 / 12 ; 33 % ) and B ( 1 ) R ( 1 / 12 ; 8 . 3 % ) showed a low expression in invasive gallbladder carcinomas .
Six edentulous patients ( aged 60 + / - 9 years ) with a severely atrophic mandible underwent bone augmentation with distraction osteogenesis .
Transgenic mice engineered to express human endosialin bred on an immunocompromised background allowed the growth of human tumor xenografts .
These results indicate that Ets - 1 is induced in ECs after denudation through activation of p38 .
These results suggest that CSC contribute to tumor angiogenesis by promoting both local endothelial cell activity and systemic angiogenic processes involving bone marrow - derived EPC in a vascular endothelial growth factor - dependent and stromal - derived factor 1 - dependent manner .
This observation indicates that VCSA expression at the cell surface is likely to be the result of the interaction between the viral src gene product pp60src with host cell gene ( s ) or gene product ( s ) , rather than the simple expression of this molecule at the cell surface .
The p16 / Rb / E2F pathway is the most frequent target of genetic alterations in gliomas , and therefore constitutes a suitable target for gene therapy strategies .
Akt knockdown and an mTOR inhibitor revealed the importance of the Akt / mTOR pathway in the postirradiation accumulation of HIF - 1alpha .
Promoter binding assay was performed by chromatin immunoprecipitation ( ChIP ) assay .
Our results reveal an aspect of the precise molecular mechanisms of some breast cancers , in which full invasiveness is not acquired just by intracellular alterations of cancer cells , but extracellular factors from microenvironments may also be necessary .
Here , we discuss the possibility for MMPs to contribute to pericyte recruitment at six levels : ( 1 ) direct promotion of pericyte invasion by extracellular matrix degradation ; ( 2 ) stimulation of pericyte proliferation and protection against apoptosis by modification of the ECM ; ( 3 ) activation of pericytes through the release of growth factor bound to the ECM ; ( 4 ) transactivation of angiogenic cell surface receptor ; ( 5 ) propagation of angiogenic signalling as cofactor ; and ( 6 ) recruitment of bone marrow - derived stem cells .
These data suggest that c - FLIP may play a critical role in regulating Fas - mediated apoptosis in prostate cancer cells and that modulation of c - FLIP may enhance Fas signaling based therapies .
BACKGROUND : The fate of patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia of type II A ( MEN II A ) is determined by medullary thyroid carcinoma , which occurs in all cases .
None of the inhibitors had any effect on the weight of the superovulated ovaries or on the synthesis of progesterone by cultured luteal cells .
DESIGN : Paraffin - embedded sections of 37 breast carcinomas were immunostained for survivin , bcl - 2 , bcl - x , and bax .
The tumor apoptosis was observed by electron microscopy .
Molecular biology of cervical cancer and its precursors .
Gangliocytic paraganglioma ( GPG ) with local lymph node metastasis was found in the pancreas of a 74 - yr - old female who presented with diarrhea , steatorrhea , vomiting , nausea , and abdominal pain .
Compared with values measured at the edge of the ear and in the contralateral ear , leukocyte adhesion was found to be diminished significantly in vessels inside the ear tumor in both mouse models .
Targeting a tumor - specific laminin domain critical for human carcinogenesis .
However , there is no report to show that DATS induced apoptosis in vitro and inhibited CT26 cancer cells in vivo on a murine allograft animal model .
Significant differences were found between the control and experimental fat pads with regard to weight and length .
There was a significant correlation between eye appraisal and Chalkley counting ( P less than 0 . 0001 ) .
TSP - 1 mRNA levels were decreased in all tumours compared with normal prostate .
We also show that Akt pathway mediates IGF1 - R - induced Bcl - x ( L ) expression at transcriptional level .
Clinical studies have shown elevated serum IL - 6 concentrations in patients with endometrial cancer , non - small cell lung carcinoma , colorectal cancer , renal cell carcinoma , breast and ovarian cancer .
Transformation - associated cytokine 9E3 / CEF4 is chemotactic for chicken peripheral blood mononuclear cells .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and Angiopoietin 1 ( Ang1 ) are both potent proangiogenic factors , but , whereas VEGF causes vascular permeability , Ang1 stabilizes blood vessels and protects them from VEGF - induced plasma leakage .
To characterize the effects of CK1delta on SV40 - induced mammary carcinogenesis , we generated transgenic mice expressing mutant CK1delta under the control of the whey acidic protein ( WAP ) gene promoter , and crossed them with SV40 transgenic WAP - T - antigen ( WAP - T ) mice .
Integration of HPV DNA frequently disrupts the E2 open reading frames , resulting in overexpression of the E6 and E7 oncoproteins and possibly causing genomic instability .
The nm23 gene is a conspicuous metastasis - suppressor gene .
There was a significant correlation between loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 expression and upregulation of c - myc .
We used these data to establish a convenient , effective and non - radioactive ELISA screening technique for the identification and evaluation of potential inhibitors for VEGFR - 2 kinase .
In this study we examined the role of p24 proteins in insulin transport .
The mean BCVA increased from 20 / 76 to 20 / 64 .
BACKGROUND : Vascular adhesion protein - 1 ( VAP - 1 ) regulates leukocyte tissue infiltration .
In multivariate analysis , PE was found to be a significant ( P = 0 . 03 ) predictor of overall survival ( OS ) with adjustment of the other baseline covariates , including patient age , history of antecedent hematologic disorders , and the use of protective environments .
In contrast , multicellular spheroids mimic heterogeneous cellular behavior and the consequent functional characteristics of in vivo solid tumors , and serve as important in vitro model to investigate tumor biology and responses to potential therapeutic agents .
Here we show that IL - 12 activates an anti - angiogenic program in Con A - activated mouse spleen cells ( activated spc ) or human PBMC ( activated PBMC ) .
Oocytes in double - mutant females showed normal localization of brca2 and pou5f1 transcripts to the animal pole and vasa transcripts to the vegetal pole , but had a polarized rather than symmetrical nucleus with the distribution of nucleoli and chromosomes to opposite nuclear poles ; this result revealed a novel role for Brca2 in establishing or maintaining oocyte nuclear architecture .
1B3 binds to PDGFRbeta with high affinity ( 9x10 ( - 11 ) M ) and blocks PDGF - BB from binding to the receptor with an IC ( 50 ) of approximately 1 . 2 nM .
Delayed addition of GM - CSF , but not FBS , permitted partial rescue of the cells , inhibiting increasing rates of accumulation of fragmented DNA .
Animals were sacrificed at 3 - week intervals from 0 to 39 weeks after treatments began .
In vivo studies after dosing on Days 6 , 7 , and 8 demonstrated the same reductions in nucleic acid synthesis and a moderate reduction in protein synthesis .
Effects of cyclooxygenase - 2 non - selective and selective inhibitors on proliferation inhibition and apoptosis induction of esophageal squamous carcinoma cells .
Therefore , our results indicate that emodin inhibits HER - 2 / neu tyrosine kinase activity and preferentially suppresses growth and induces differentiation of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing cancer cells .
This strategy may be of significant value in laying the foundation for a more explicit anti - tumor angiogenesis therapy .
In cultured cells , this molecule is physically associated with focal adhesions , which are well - defined regions of intimate cell - to - substratum adhesion .
Human cytomegalovirus elevates levels of the cellular protein p53 in infected fibroblasts .
We examined whether betulin , a naturally abundant compound , has anticancer functions in human cancer cells .
Depletion of Rab7a decreased VEGFR2 Y1175 phosphorylation but increased p42 / 44 ( pERK1 / 2 ) MAPK phosphorylation .
The increase in tumorigenicity and metastatic ability could be explained by the increase in Mr 72 , 000 type IV collagenase activity and angiogenesis attributed to the induction of IL - 8 after irradiation .
Here we demonstrate that repetitive exposure to tobacco smoke promotes tumor development both in carcinogen - treated mice and in transgenic mice undergoing sporadic K - ras activation in lung epithelial cells .
For this reason , formalin - fixed , paraffin - embedded specimens from 130 patients with squamous cell lung carcinomas were analyzed by immunohistochemistry .
Additionally , bolus ( 3h ) doxorubicin incubation led to phosphorylation of p53 at serine 392 , induction of p21 , G2 arrest and increase of proapoptotic protein Bax .
Nevertheless , the repression of VEGF - C was lost in mutant VHL cell lines under hypoxia .
Consequently , increased adhesion of cancer cells to endothelial cells was observed by the treatment of carcinostatic agents .
Finally , Bcl - 2 is significantly increased in the neuroblastoma cells cultured in the conditioned media .
The transplantation of old donor - derived MSCs attenuated apoptosis of cardiomyocytes in the peri - infarct region compared with the control group and the effect was elevated in young donor - derived MSCs ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
In this study , we investigated whether the nuclear transcription factor NF - kappaB , implicated in PC metastasis , is involved in transcriptional regulation and activation of BMP - 2 or BMP - 4 / Smad signaling in PC cells .
We tested whether as well as inhibiting leukocyte elastase ( LE ) activity , Hyp might be effective in containing both polymorphonuclear neutrophil ( PMN ) leukocyte recruitment and unfavorable eventual tissue responses .
Among the most potent of the angiogenic factors is vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
Neoplastic transformation of ciliary body epithelium is associated with loss of opticin expression .
Different antiangiogenic therapeutics have been developed to improve tumor control through vascular - targeting agents ( VTA ) .
Nitric oxide ( NO ) plays an important role in maintaining vascular homeostasis .
There is a crucial need to identify parameters that can predict a tendancy to metastatic spread to allow better prognostic evaluation and therapeutic approach .
They do not compete with 125I EGF for binding on the EGF receptors of the membrane of A431 cells .
We observed a significant up - regulation of VEGF - B ( P = 0 . 002 ) but not VEGF - C ( P = 0 . 3 ) in neoplastic kidney compared with normal tissues .
Betulin ( 10 microg / mL ) induces apoptotic cell death , as evidenced by morphological characteristics such as membrane phosphatidylserine translocation , nuclear condensation / fragmentation , and apoptotic body formation .
Western blot analysis demonstrated increased active form SREBP in migrating as compared to non - migrating ECs population .
Retinopathy is the most common microvascular diabetes complication and represents a major threat to the eyesight .
We previously showed in colorectal cancer that sVAP - 1 expression is significantly higher relative to controls , and this decreased expression is associated with poor prognosis and lymph node and liver metastasis .
Toxicity , pharmacokinetic , and organ biodistribution studies were performed in nude mice .
We have , therefore , measured the mRNA level of VEGF - B and VEGF - C together with their receptors by RNase protection assay ( RPA ) in 26 normal kidney samples and 45 renal cell cancers .
CONCLUSIONS : Despite a small sample size and limited length of follow - up , this study shows that visual acuity on average can remain stable for at least 12 months after PDT of juxtafoveal lesions .
This limitation may be resolved by in vivo delivery and expression of the antiangiogenic genes .
Conversely , knockdown of endogenous FOXO3a expression reduced PI3K / Akt activity .
Treatment with anti - Fas for 48 h induced apoptosis with cells exhibiting typical apoptotic features including loss of cell contact , condensation of chromatin , and increased staining of the nuclear membrane .
Furthermore , inhibition of PARP activity , but not of caspase activity , completely prevented magnolol - induced necrosis , suggesting the notion that it might be caused by depletion of intracellular ATP levels due to PARP activation .
Accumulating evidences indicate that receptor activator of NF - kB ligand ( RANKL ) is the ultimate extracellular mediator that stimulates osteoclast differentiation into mature osteoclasts .
METHODS : Tumor biopsy specimens and serum were obtained from 37 neuroblastoma patients ; adrenal biopsy sections and sera of 7 normal children served as controls .
Our results suggest that this small peptide functions as an angiogenic inhibitor by inhibiting VEGF function through a non - VEGF binding mechanism .
The rate of oxygen utilization was not altered by the addition of 0 . 5 mM glutamine ; 5 mM glucose induced an inhibition of respiration .
We also examined cell proliferation , migration , and anti - apoptotic activity in response to stromal cell - derived factor ( SDF ) - 1alpha and evaluated SDF - 1alpha / CXCR4 signaling pathways .
Six subclones were randomly selected from H - 3 cells which had been subcultured to passage 22 .
Single - nucleotide polymorphisms of the FAS - 1377G / A , FAS - 670A / G , and FASL - 844T / C genes may alter transcriptional activity of these genes .
The interaction of neoplastic cells with the extracellular matrix is a critical event for the initiation of cancer invasion and metastasis .
The following review describes key molecular mechanisms and novel therapies that are on the horizon for antiangiogenic tumor therapy .
It could be demonstrated that RAGE plays a pivotal role in structural damage ( e . g . inflammation , neoangiogenesis and fibrosis ) of the peritoneal membrane .
More than 50 % of the tumor cells coexpressed vimentin and keratin .
OBJECTIVES : Bisphosphonates have been used successfully in the treatment of hypercalcemia and to reduce skeletal - related complications of bone metastases .
Therefore , to understand their role in tumor invasion , it is necessary to evaluate them collectively .
Treatment involved intravitreal injection of bevacizumab ( 1 . 25 mg in 0 . 05 mL ) every 6 - 12 weeks .
Slight variations are caused by drug treatment in tumor - bearing mice as compared with untreated tumor - bearing controls ; the pattern of effects of the selective antimetastatic agents does not differ from that of the reference cytotoxic compound used , cyclophosphamide .
Low - level X - radiation effects on functional vascular changes in Syrian hamster cheek pouch epithelium during hydrocarbon carcinogenesis .
METHODS : The parameters associated with locating and then photocoagulating CNV feeder vessels were identified and optimized using published data and data derived from modeling the choroidal vasculature .
Focal adhesion kinase ( pp125FAK or FAK ) is a protein tyrosine kinase which is associated with intracellular signalling cascades which are initiated when the integrin family of cell adhesion molecules engage extracellular matrix molecules .
Loss - of - function effects were also observed in HIF - 1alpha - null embryonic stem cells .
In wild - type zebrafish , meiotic cells expressed brca2 ; and , unexpectedly , transcripts in oocytes localized asymmetrically to the animal pole .
After 24 h treatment with 80 microM magnolol in serum - containing medium , about 50 % of the cells exhibited apoptotic features and 20 % necrotic features .
Desensitization could be induced in NIH - 3T3 cells by culturing under conditions where the cells were all in the exponential growth phase , or by a 12 h exposure to a C - kinase - activating phorbol ester .
PTTG overexpression promotes lymph node metastasis in human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma .
Very low - dose irradiation ( 2 x 2 Gy ) is a new , effective , and safe local treatment for follicular lymphoma .
In the current study , we have shown that loss of function by either targeted allele deletion or use of a soluble form of Dll4 extracellular domain leads to inhibition of Notch signaling , resulting in increased vascular proliferation but defective maturation .
In this review , we discuss the reported involvement of syndecans in human cancers , infectious diseases , obesity , wound healing and angiogenesis .
CONCLUSION : Immunohistochemically confirmed significance of the expression of VEGF in dependence of the CML stage could be of clinical importance in deciding on the timing therapy .
Intriguingly , two recent papers have shed new light into this unexplored field , indicating that p53 plays a key role in TGF - beta - induced growth arrest and , unexpectedly , in the developmental effects of TGF - beta in early embryos .
However , PC12 cells do not precisely reflect the pathogenesis of malignant cells .
In the mammary carcinoma experiment , vascular permeability measured by means of B22956 / 1 in the animals treated with the antiangiogenic drug ( 0 . 0043317 + / - 0 . 0040418 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) ) was significantly less than in untreated animals ( 0 . 0090460 + / - 0 . 0043680 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) ) , whereas no significant difference was observed with Gd - DTPA - albumin ( 13 . 14 + / - 13 . 94 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) in treated animals and 18 . 07 + / - 11 . 92 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) in untreated animals ) .
Based on these optimized parameters , a prototype diagnostic / treatment system was designed that captures high - speed indocyanine green ( ICG ) angiogram images and facilitates analysis of the images by enhancing visualization of dye movement through CNV feeder vessels ( FVs ) .
These alterations bore similarities to abnormalities in differentiation observed in naturally occurring squamous epithelial malignancies .
The transforming growth factor beta ( TGFbeta ) family has critical roles in the regulation of fertility .
Six of the 8 patients whose disease progressed have died .
This primitive vascular network is extensively remodeled in some places , and expanded by sprouting in others .
Double mutants developed oocytes and became sterile females that produced only aberrant embryos and showed elevated risk for invasive ovarian tumors .
Mice primed with dimethyl - benz [ a ] anthracene ( DMBA ) were topically exposed to Cum - OOH ( 82 . 6 micromol ) or the positive control , 12 - O - tetradecanoylphorbol - 13 - acetate ( TPA , 17 nmol ) , twice weekly for 29 weeks .
After confirmation by immunocytochemical staining , their expression in patient samples was measured using 40 pairs of undifferentiated NPCs together with their adjacent normal epithelia .
The immune response to burn injury is immediate , prolonged , and severe .
The VEGF pathway is one of the most important and best - studied angiogenic pathways .
An assay to measure angiogenesis in human fat tissue .
[ Study of fungus polysaccharides compounds ( FPC ) in inducing the apoptosis of liver cancer cell Bel - 7402 ] .
The result showed that the mechanism of the FPC antineoplastic effect had an intimate relation with its induction to apoptosis and that the result of FPC inducing tumor cell apoptosis had the character of P53 independence .
Expression of 14 - 3 - 3 final sigma ( final sigma ) is induced in response to DNA damage , and causes cells to arrest in G ( 2 ) .
Suppressed transformation and induced differentiation of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells by emodin .
RESULTS : As of November 30 , 1994 , the median follow - up period was 12 years .
These two enzymes were also found to have specificity for gelatin .
The accumulation was inhibited with a nonmetabolizable glucose analog , 2 - deoxy - d - glucose , through the suppression of radiation - induced phosphorylation of Akt in the reoxygenated regions .
Fibroblast growth factor 2 promotes microvessel formation from mouse embryonic aorta .
Homeostatic functions of the p53 tumor suppressor : regulation of energy metabolism and antioxidant defense .
BMSVTs exhibited a partially transformed phenotype , demonstrating growth factor independence , altered antigen expression and forming tiny , infrequent colonies in vitro .
Obesity is a common disorder and related diseases such as diabetes , atherosclerosis , hypertension , cardiovascular disease and cancer are a major cause of mortality and morbidity in Western - type societies .
CONCLUSIONS : LDH5 is overexpressed in NSCLC and could hence serve as an additional marker for malignancy .
Using wound - healing assay and Boyden chamber assay , GA had potent inhibitory effects on AGS cell migration .
PTEN mRNA and protein were less frequently expressed in early and advanced gastric carcinomas than that in normal gastric mucosa ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Since the vessels of normal non - neoplastic human tissues , e . g . of intestine or lymphatic organs , have few somatostatin receptors , the increased somatostatin receptor expression in peritumoral vessels observed in this study may be linked to the neoplastic process itself .
We have examined the tyrosine phosphorylation of a major cellular protein of Mr 36 , 000 in cells infected with a panel of partially transforming mutants of Rous sarcoma virus .
Patients had primarily relapsed diffuse large B - cell lymphoma ( 63 % ) were heavily pretreated ( median of three regimens ) and high risk ( 79 % international prognostic index , greater than or = 2 ) and 34 % were relapsed after autologous stem cell transplant .
UV - B - induced IL - 8 was constitutively expressed 60 days after irradiation in tumors implanted in mice .
Fractional tumor growth was determined and immunohistochemical analysis of tumors was used to determine degree of angiogenesis .
Furthermore , there is strong evidence suggesting that aberrant activation of Wnt signaling induces mammary tumors from stem / progenitor cells , and that Wnt exerts its oncogenic effects through LRP5 / 6 - mediated activation of beta - catenin and mTOR pathways .
Unusual in healthy individuals , their presence in elevated numbers often indicates substantial vascular endothelial perturbation .
After two courses , the primary tumor was reduced to an ulcer scar with pathological confirmation of a complete disappearance of the cancer tissue .
We also show that mouse p10 is able to inhibit foci formation and anchorage - independent growth in wild - type mouse embryonic fibroblasts , and that these antitransforming properties of mouse p10 are also p53 - dependent .
Hypoxia - activated functional HIF - 1 protein binds to hypoxia - responsive elements ( HRE ) in the enhancers of several genes including VEGF , the major player in angiogenesis , and initiates their mRNA expression .
Tumor necrosis factor alpha ( TNF - alpha ) , Fas ligand , and Bcl - 2 , are measured with immunohistochemistry .
Besides TGFbeta and RTK / Ras signaling , autocrine factors and Wnt - , Notch - , Hedgehog - and NF - kappaB - dependent pathways were found to contribute to EMT .
The MVD and Ki - 67 LI were higher , and the AI was lower in the SCC with VEGF / p53 coexpression than in those without the coexpression .
It focuses on the role of IL - 18 modulation in tumours , infections and autoimmune and inflammatory diseases .
Therefore , we have identified a novel role for PSMA as a true molecular interface , integrating both extracellular and intracellular signals during angiogenesis .
Grape seed extract ( GSE ) , a widely used dietary supplement , is known to have antitumor activity .
Neovascularization , an essential event for the growth of solid tumors , is regulated by a number of angiogenic factors .
The excessive production of ROS can damage protein , lipids , nucleic acids , and matrix components .
The chromosomal translocation t ( 11 : 14 ) is associated with human lymphoid neoplasia affecting centrocytic B - cells of intermediate differentiation .
p63 - positive cells were found in 16 % of carcinomas .
The authors studied insulin effects on tumor and skeletal muscle metabolism with 2 - [ 18F ] - fluoro - 2 - deoxy - D - glucose ( [ 18F ] FDG ) and positron emission tomography ( PET ) .
Together , our data define caspase - 3 as an important integrator of the apoptotic process in MCF - 7 breast cancer cells and reveal an essential function of caspase - 3 for procaspase - 9 processing .
A tumor ' s ability to successfully metastasize may be dependent on mediators generated in the tumor - host interaction , and may not be just an independent characteristic of the tumor itself .
HCMV immediate - early proteins were clearly shown to be responsible for elevating p53 levels in infected fibroblasts ; expression of HCMV immediate - early region 1 and 2 proteins resulted in elevation of p53 levels in transfected human fibroblasts .
A portion of bilateral radial bones of a rabbit were removed as free bone grafts , whose periostea were peeled off .
OBJECTIVES : Recently , it has been reported that expression of the HRK gene was significantly reduced by hypermethylation in astrocytic tumors .
Crucial genetic events underlying the initiation and progression of colorectal and pancreatic adenocarcinoma with a particular focus on the modulation of angiogenesis and antiangiogenic therapies are discussed .
As pregnancy advanced the complexity of the vasculature increased : at 4 weeks the surface showed a pattern of ridges separated by troughs .
Glycolysis and glutaminolysis in perifused Ehrlich ascites tumour cells .
In this study , the expression of the cadherin - catenin complex and p53 was studied in early gastric cancer .
Here , we established lymph node metastasis models by injecting overexpressing VEGF - D Lewis lung carcinoma cells into C57BL / 6 mice to explore the effect of honokiol on tumor - associated lymphangiogenesis and related lymph node metastasis .
Left ventricular capillary length density ( mm / mm ( 3 ) ) increased gradually with alinidine administration ; a 15 % increase after 2 weeks and a 40 % increase after 3 weeks of alinidine treatment were documented .
Infection with retroviruses containing transforming genes of the src and ras oncogene families led to rapid loss of epidermal growth factor dependence , in some cases , accompanied by alterations in cellular morphology .
Phosphorylation of BimL by Pak1 prevents it from interacting with and inactivation of Bcl - 2 , an antiapoptotic protein .
The tumour suppressor p53 and interferon - alpha and - beta ( IFN - alpha / beta ) are essential for the induction of apoptosis in cancerous cells and in antiviral immune responses , respectively , but little is known about their interrelationship .
In addition , cross - talk between the IGF system and other growth factors and integrin receptors has been demonstrated .
Surprisingly , when injected into chicken embryos in the presence of helper virus , both viruses induced an erythroleukemia in about half of the animals .
In conclusion , 14 - 3 - 3zeta and beta - catenin might have an important role in development , progression and metastatic process of NSCLC .
Our data suggest that VEGFR2 - mediated regulation of endothelial function is dependent on different but specific Rab - mediated GTP hydrolysis activity required for endosomal trafficking .
In the HT29 tumor model , treatment response to vandetanib ( 50 mg / kg / day , Monday - Friday for 2 weeks ) was greatest in xenografts derived from the highest VEGF - expressing cell clones .
Overall , paclitaxel exerts its anti - tumour effects on cervical cancer cells by inducing apoptosis through intrinsic pathway , and rapamycin targeted to mTOR can sensitise paclitaxel - resistant cervical cancer cells .
In immunohistochemical analysis , rk - 2 reduced expression of vascular endothelial growth factor , which is a potent angiogenic activator and neovascularization in the mouse lung .
However , the function of bFGF in parenchymal cells remains to be determined .
c - myc is a major target that transduces Myb ' s proliferative signal , as shown by the ability of a c - Myc - estrogen receptor fusion protein alone to also reverse growth arrest in this system .
Previously , we reported that in vitro M - CSF induces the expression of biologically - active VEGF from human monocytes .
Cells stably transformed by the Src oncogene tyrosine kinase were examined for STAT protein activation .
CONCLUSION : Our results show the effectiveness of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS as an angiogenesis inhibitor in suppressing tumor growth during different stages of tumor progression , validating the application of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS gene therapy in treatment against lung cancer .
We hypothesized that IGF - 1 - transfected smooth muscle cells ( SMCs ) would enhance cell survival and improve engraftment after cell transplantation .
This was markedly suppressed upon simultaneous injection of anti - VEGF polyclonal antibodies with the supernatant .
In the present study it was found that incubation of HepG2 cells with a low concentration of 3 - BrPA for a short period ( 150 microM for 30 min ) significantly affected both glycolysis and mitochondrial respiratory functions .
CONCLUSION : Myofibroblasts represent an important prognostic factor for invasive growth that is translated into a poor clinical prognosis for patients with invasive breast cancer .
These findings advance our understanding of the functions of N - myc in neuroblastoma cells .
Hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell carcinoma ( HLRCC ) is caused by mutations in the Krebs cycle enzyme fumarate hydratase ( FH ) .
Energy supply of the mitotic cell cycle and the Na + / H + - antiport in ascites tumors .
One such agent , 3 - bromopyruvate ( 3 - BrPA ) , a lactic acid analog , has been shown to inhibit both glycolytic and mitochondrial ATP production in rapidly growing cancers ( Ko et al . , Cancer Letts . , 173 , 83 - 91 , 2001 ) , leave normal cells alone , and eradicate advanced cancers ( 19 of 19 ) in a rodent model ( Ko et al . , Biochem . Biophys . Res . Commun . , 324 , 269 - 275 , 2004 ) .
Coexpression of the progesterone receptor with mutant K - Ras led to suppression of tumorigenicity and inhibition of the activation of ER .
CONCLUSION : MCT targeting significantly reduced the viability of U - 87 MG cells mediated by both apoptosis and necrosis .
Supernatant from cultures of Ve - and OMP - stimulated HGF strongly induced VPE .
In addition , detailed metabolic assessment of these MEFs confirmed their dependence on glycolysis , and an elevated rate of lactate efflux , associated with the upregulation of glycolytic enzymes known to be associated with tumorigenesis .
While the role of protein tyrosine kinases has been examined extensively in human breast tumorigenesis , the role of PTPases in this process is virtually unknown .
Electrical stimulation ( ES ) has been recommended as a adjunctive therapy , however optimal treatment paradigms have not been established .
In some cancers , syndecan expression has been shown to regulate tumor cell function ( e . g . proliferation , adhesion , and motility ) and serve as a prognostic marker for tumor progression and patient survival .
The effect on aerobic glucose consumption , lactic acid formation , content of total ( T - SH ) and non - protein thiol groups ( NP - SH ) , endogenous respiration and the level of ATP in tumor cells incubated in vitro was investigated .
This suggests that the activity of topo I inhibitors will not differ across various tumor stages , pathology , and patient gender .
Intensive insulin therapy may cause a transient worsening of retinopathy in patients with diabetes through increased retinal VEGF gene expression .
Ras p21 onco - protein in the sera of mice carrying an experimentally induced tumor and in human cancer patients .
The data show that different protein expression patterns exist between primary squamous cell lung carcinomas with and without lymph node involvement and within carcinomas with lymph node involvement .
In contrast , bFGF mRNA was not altered by alinidine treatment .
Using a combination of two dimensional electrophoresis ( 2 - DE ) and MALDI - TOF mass spectrometry , a total of 125 proteins and their post - translational modification forms or isoforms were found to be differentially expressed in the cell lines .
Interestingly , both INK4 genes express alternative splicing variants .
However , VEGF has also been shown to be neuroprotective across several experimental paradigms , and hence could potentially protect vulnerable cells from damage associated with seizures .
Our previous studies mapped PEDF antiangiogenic and prosurvival activities to distinct epitopes .
These data suggest that VEGF plays a role in the biology of CML and that VEGF inhibitors should be investigated in CML .
[ Interleukin - 18 and new drugs . Protective effect against tumor growth and infections ] .
Melissoidesin G ( MOG ) is a new diterpenoid purified from Isodon melissoides , a plant used in Chinese traditional medicine as antitumor and anti - inflammatory agents .
Topo I protein expression was detected in 127 ( 51 % ) samples , including 24 . 4 % with > 50 % positive tumor cells .
BALB - / MK - 2 mouse epidermal keratinocytes required epidermal growth factor for proliferation and terminally differentiated in response to high Ca2 + concentration .
RESULTS : In all , 67 vascular abnormalities were found by indocyanine green angiography and only 22 by fluorescein angiography ; this finding was statistically significant ( P less than 0 . 0001 ) .
All wounds were fully re - epithelialized by 10 days post - injury .
Increasing evidence suggests that elevated expression of ErbB - 3 is important for malignancy .
Moreover , we show that subjecting transfected hepatoma cells to hypoxic conditions activates the type II hexokinase promoter almost 3 - fold , a value that approaches 7 - fold in the presence of glucose .
Anti - endosialin antibodies may have value in identifying vasculature in malignant tissues .
Spontaneous metastasis indicates a possible reverse correlation .
Patients with other genetic blistering disorders do not have elevated collagenase or an increased risk of squamous cell carcinoma , despite chronic wounding .
The p53 - dependent and p - 53 - independent functions of this protein are under many studies .
These results suggest that C / EBPbeta may be a marker of neoplastic transformation and also play an active role in gastric tumourigenesis by regulating COX - 2 expression .
We also report on the identification of novel RASSF1C target genes .
Here we report that the chemotherapeutic drug doxorubicin , a DNA - damaging agent , activates a p53 - survivin signaling pathway inducing cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ) .
Safety of verteporfin for treatment of subfoveal choroidal neovascular membranes associated with age - related macular degeneration .
Cells which had been grown in medium containing 1 ng / ml TGF - beta developed colony - forming capacity in soft agar containing epidermal growth factor .
The proinflammatory activities link TNF - alpha with a wide variety of autoimmune diseases , including psoriasis , inflammatory bowel disease , rheumatoid arthritis , systemic sclerosis , systemic lupus erythematosus , multiple sclerosis , diabetes and ankylosing spondylitis .
A Whipple procedure led to a complete resolution of these symptoms and a return of an elevated stomatostatin level to normal .
The increased transport rate is a consequence of an increased number of transporters in the transformed cells .
Cancer progression and p53 .
Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) is strongly associated with the development of HCC in people chronically infected with the virus , but the mechanism of viral involvement remains unclear .
In most cases treatment was associated with decreased vascular leakage , stabilization , or improved vision .
Treatment of cells with PKC inhibitors also potentiated anchorage - independent growth of BPDE treated cells on soft agar .
Proteomic comparison of nasopharyngeal cancer cell lines C666 - 1 and NP69 identifies down - regulation of annexin II and beta2 - tubulin for nasopharyngeal carcinoma .
Finally , mutating the Sp1 binding sites within the VEGF promoter or inhibiting ERK decreased VEGF promoter activity in M - CSF - treated human monocytes .
Expression of TSP - 1 is up - regulated by the tumor suppressor gene , p53 , and down - regulated by oncogenes such as Myc and Ras .
At 3 weeks , the endogenous blood supply of both the control and the experimental fat pads was isolated and ligated , and the composite fat / muscle flap was transferred to the chest wall .
Vascular and neoplastic tissue from 14 colonic adenocarcinomas , 13 carcinoids , 6 renal - cell carcinomas and 7 malignant lymphomas were analyzed for somatostatin receptors by use of quantitative receptor autoradiography .
Since EVT cells possess active invasion - associated genes but are nontumorigenic , our objective was to induce premalignant and then malignant phenotype into a normal EVT cell line in order to identify the molecular basis of tumor progression .
The sensitivity and specificity of s - VEGF at the cut - off level of 100 pg / ml , as determined by the receiver - operating - characteristics curve , were 80 . 0 % and 72 . 5 % , respectively .
Daily i . v . injections of HAH - cortisol at doses causing no apparent toxicity retarded the growth of solid s . c .
Three patients developed deep vein thromboses and two heavily pretreated patients developed treatment - related acute myelogenous leukemia or myelodysplasia after 3 . 7 and 12 months of therapy .
RESULTS : PLGA microspheres with an open - porous structure were formed .
In contrast , the incidence and density of somatostatin receptors in peritumoral vessels was low in well - differentiated gastrointestinal and bronchial carcinoids , in contrast to the high density of such receptors in the carcinoid tumor tissue .
Remarkably , lymphomas arising in Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) mice ( encoding p53R172P ) retain stable genomes .
These mutations may have functional consequences since they eliminate potential phosphorylation sites and may affect the tertiary structure of mature protein complexes .
A similar trend was noted in the SCCVII tumor model .
In damaged and inflamed tissue , LL - 37 functions as a chemoattractant , mitogen and pro - angiogenic factor suggesting that the peptide may potentiate tumor progression .
Addition of the caspase inhibitor Z - VAD . fmk inhibited caspase 8 and 3 significantly but did not affect caspase 9 .
In contrast , NIH 3T3 cells are non - tumorigenic but are ras - responsive and become metastatic when transfected with ras .
Urokinase receptor : a molecular organizer in cellular communication .
HYPOTHESIS : We speculate that there is a burst of angiogenesis of distant dormant micrometastases after surgery in approximately 20 % of premenopausal node - positive patients .
They also induced local angiogenesis in vivo in an animal model .
The neural stem cell fate determinant TLX plays a pivotal role in neurogenesis in the adult brain by maintaining neural stem cells .
PMN - triggered angiogenesis is also blocked by both local injection and daily i . p . administration of the Hyp salt in an interleukin - 8 - induced murine model .
Autochthonous vessels surrounding other tumors such as renal - cell carcinomas or malignant lymphomas also frequently expressed somatostatin receptors .
Here , we compared the sensitivity of RCC cells lacking VHL gene function with that of RCC cells expressing the wild - type VHL gene ( wtVHL ) after exposure to various stresses .
A prefabricated composite fat flap consisting of muscle woven into an anatomically distinct fat pad was studied in a rabbit model .
Ultraviolet B irradiation promotes tumorigenic and metastatic properties in primary cutaneous melanoma via induction of interleukin 8 .
A summary is made of recent advances in the understanding of IL - 18 structure , processing , receptor expression and immunoregulatory functions .
Correlation analysis was performed between blood vessel parameters and the amount of new bone formed during distraction .
In this model , UFT showed a strong angiogenesis - inhibitory effect , whereas 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) and doxifluridine were less effective .
No AP - 1 expression was found 19 weeks after initiation .
None of the epithelial cell lines induced foci in a focus formation assay .
METHODS : This review discusses our current understanding of the mechanisms of TGF - beta signaling , focusing on the roles of TGF - beta in regulation of vascular wall cells and on the regulation of TGF - beta superfamily signals by inhibitory Smads .
Immune complex kinase assays in the simian virus 40 system were performed by incubation of immunoprecipitates containing tumor antigens with [ gamma - 32P ] ATP , followed by analysis of any phosphoacceptor proteins .
hTERT activity is associated with nodal metastases and cellular proliferation .
Inhibition of NO synthase by L - NAME might induce an anti - tumour effect by limiting nutrients and oxygen to reach tumour tissue or affecting vascular growth .
Treatment with all - trans - RA decreased the level of these enzymes in the cellular , cell membrane , and conditioned medium compartments . ( ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS )
Together , these findings suggest that NCAM may limit tumor cell metastasis by stabilizing the microvessel wall .
PURPOSE : The aim of this study was to investigate the use of D2 - 40 for the detection of lymphovascular invasion ( LVI ) in node positive and negative early breast cancer .
From in vivo experiments using new methods such as the rabbit cornea , it is now becoming clear that the growth of a capillary involves an ordered sequence of events that includes lysis of the basement membrane of a parent venule , directional migration of capillary endothelial cells toward the angiogenic stimulus , lumen formation , development of branches , and anastomosis of the tip of one tube with another to form a loop .
Troponin I ( TnI ) is a novel cartilage - derived angiogenesis inhibitor , first demonstrated by Moses et al .
METHODS : Receptor proteins were visualized by immunohistochemistry on 5 - mum sections of paraffin - embedded tissue .
One hTERT transduced BMEC culture underwent a long proliferative lag before resuming proliferation .
Cells of the highly metastatic lung - colonizing clone MTF7 . T35 . 3 , derived from the 13762NF cell line , were treated for 3 days with 0 . 1 , 1 , or 10 microM all - trans - RA , harvested , and seeded on [ 3H ] proline - labeled extracellular matrix deposited by cultured rat lung endothelial cells or on a film of purified [ 3H ] proline - labeled type IV collagen .
Forced expression of SEMA3B , but not SEMA3F , inhibited viability of ovarian cancer cells .
Cox proportional hazards multivariate analysis ( MVA ) was used to determine the relation of MDM2 to the endpoints .
The expression of VEGF and p53 protein in these SCC was examined immunohistochemically .
miR - 378 , miR - 296 , and the miR - 17 - 92 cluster contribute to tumor angiogenesis .
The two parameters were more frequently observed in the SCC with VEGF / p53 coexpression than in those without the coexpression .
Comparative NMR study of a differentiated rat hepatoma and its dedifferentiated subclone cultured as spheroids and as implanted tumors .
COX - 2 protein was detected in eight of the 12 carcinomas , whereas PPARgamma protein was detected in only two cases .
A key role for the integrin alpha2beta1 in experimental and developmental angiogenesis .
Highly metastatic tumors with beta - catenin stabilization are very similar to a subset of human melanomas .
CONCLUSION : These results demonstrated that PTEN had played an important role in the cell proliferation , cell migration and invasion dependent on its phosphatase activity .
CONCLUSION : Our observations suggest that DCC / netrin - 1 signaling may commit cells to the transition of endometrial gland architecture or function from a proliferating to a secretory phase .
C / EBPbeta is over - expressed in gastric carcinogenesis and is associated with COX - 2 expression .
The mechanism of Notch signaling remains poorly understood .
In addition , higher apoptotic counts were associated with HRK positivity .
These data provide further evidence of the existing relationship between pro - inflammatory molecules and ovarian cancer progression .
In this communication , we describe an alternative approach that begins with teleology ; i . e . adaptive landscapes and selection pressures that promote emergence of aerobic glycolysis during the somatic evolution of invasive cancer .
A connection between CAM and adipose tissue vessels was evidenced by immunohistochemistry , with recruitment of both avian and human endothelial cells .
The number of retinal vascular findings was not significantly correlated with serous elevation of the retina .
[ Tumor metastasis and the fibrinolytic system ] .
This hypothesis in humans can be tested only by intervention trials that are in progress .
Similar differences in NME protein levels were observed in tumors induced by the two cell lines in nude mice .
Finally , in vivo , in a xenograft model of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma using UM - SCC - 11A cells , 2ME2 exhibited antitumor and antiangiogenic activity , as measured by CD31 immunostaining .
Molecular factors which implement this triad of events are reviewed , as are several signal transduction components which may regulate them .
RhoA activation promotes transformation and loss of thyroid cell differentiation interfering with thyroid transcription factor - 1 activity .
The viral insert mapped to chromosome 17p11 . 2 - 12 , and cellular sequences were duplicated at the site of viral integration .
Synthesis and degradation of the EGF receptor are regulated , in addition , covalent modification by phosphorylation regulates activity of the receptor protein .
Understanding molecular mechanisms regulating angiogenesis may lead to novel therapies for ischemic disorders .
This mutant enhanced the steady - level and transcriptional activity of ER .
Here we report that the distal region of the hepatoma type II hexokinase promoter displays consensus motifs for hypoxia - inducible factor ( HIF - 1 ) that overlap E - box sequences known to be related in other gene promoters to glucose response .
The inhibition of tumor growth and changes of survival were recorded and the microvessel density ( MVD ) was determined by histochemical stainingwith CD31 and CD105 antibodies .
Anti - Fas treatment resulted in decreased p53 protein levels , while bcl - 2 and bax protein levels remained unaffected .
There have been no reports showing the relativity of invasive breast cancer and the desmoplastic reaction by a quantitative analysis of the myofibroblasts that were an important player in the desmoplastic reaction .
Glucose catabolism in cancer cells : identification and characterization of a marked activation response of the type II hexokinase gene to hypoxic conditions .
Thus , we herein report a novel , efficient method for identifying VEGFR - 2 kinase inhibitors and introduce one , TKI - 31 , that may prove to be a useful new angiogenesis inhibitor .
Down - regulation of Mcl - 1 resulted in an increase in Mcl - 1 - free Bim , activation of Bax , and then signaling of mitochondria - mediated apoptosis .
It significantly prolongs median survival of patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) but the response is disease - stabilizing and cytostatic rather than one of tumor regression .
Abnormal beta - catenin expression was associated significantly with positive 14 - 3 - 3zeta expression .
Treatment of NIH3T3 / KDR cells with TKI - 31 blocked VEGF - induced phosphorylation of KDR in a dose - dependent manner .
In this study , we investigated the effect of artemisinin on tumor growth , lymphangiogenesis , metastasis and survival in mouse Lewis lung carcinoma ( LLC ) models .
SAHA enhanced acetylation of histone H3 in Bim promoter region , while E1A upregulated Egr - 1 , which was directly involved in Bim transactivation .
In this study , the role of the proprotein convertase furin in PLAG1 proto - oncogene - induced salivary gland tumorigenesis was investigated .
Here we show that GR activation leads to both the rapid induction of MAPK phosphatase - 1 ( MKP - 1 ) mRNA and its sustained expression .
The Hedgehog intercellular signaling pathway regulates cell proliferation and differentiation .
Furthermore , the renal carcinoma cell lines expressed PAF - R .
SV40 Tag transformation of the normal invasive trophoblast results in a premalignant phenotype .
BMECs co - expressing SV40T , hTERT and N - ras exhibited an overtly transformed phenotype ; forming very large colonies with an altered morphology and generating rapidly growing tumours in vivo .
Angiogenesis has become an attractive target for drug therapy because of its key role in tumor growth .
Efficient inhibition of ovarian cancer growth and prolonged survival by transfection with a novel pro - apoptotic gene , hPNAS - 4 , in a mouse model .
In vivo effects of insulin on tumor and skeletal muscle glucose metabolism in patients with lymphoma .
The discovery that this gene is also frequently mutated in human leukemia has increased the interest in the role that RUNX1 plays in both normal and transforming pathways .
The central region that is sufficient for these activities includes the evolutionarily highly conserved region among human , mouse and chicken c - fos proteins .
We demonstrate here that a transcript is initiated within the U3 region and that its presence correlates with the trans - activating activity .
The purpose of the immune system is to protect cells from invasion by microorganisms .
However , it is not sufficient for the immortalization of MEF , and MEF - LMP1 ( TRADD ) cells eventually enter growth arrest .
The role of SWAP - 70 in oncogenic transformation of mouse embryo fibroblasts ( MEFs ) by v - Src was examined by use of MEFs defective in SWAP - 70 .
Randomised placebo controlled trials have shown that the phosphodiesterase III inhibitor cilostazol 100mg bid improves pain - free and maximum walking distance , as well as quality of life , in a range of patients with intermittent claudication in whom there is no evidence of tissue necrosis or rest pain .
The effect of von Hippel - Lindau ( VHL ) gene and hypoxia on VEGF - B and VEGF - C expression in the renal carcinoma cell line 786 - 0 transfected with wild - type and mutant VHL was determined by growing cells under 21 % O2 - and 0 . 1 % O2 .
There was a significant positive relationship between PAI - 1 levels and T - stage ( p = < 0 . 05 ) in the total group , and survival status ( p = < 0 . 05 ) in the SCC subgroup alone .
In the present study a DNA probe derived from cellular DNA sequences adjacent to the previously characterized HBV insert was used to analyze a set of 19 matched normal liver and HBV - positive hepatoma samples obtained from the same region of China , near Shanghai .
L - deoxyribose ( L - dR ) and thymidine phosphorylase inhibitor ( TPI ) can reverse these effects .
Inoculation of these cells in athymic mice decreases mouse spleen natural killer ( NK ) cell activity .
Collectively , our results suggest the proinflammatory and essential role of IL - 17F to develop spontaneous intestinal tumorigenesis in Apc ( Min / + ) mice in the presence of IL - 17A .
It was shown that large T - antigen showed associated kinase activity , although none of our results could unambiguously demonstrate an intrinsic kinase activity of this protein .
We also detected strong activation of AKT in allograft tumors specifically AKT2 as the predominant isoform involved .
[ Expression of Merlin protein in non - small cell lung carcinoma and the clinical significance ] .
We conducted a retrospective medical record review of patients treated with rofecoxib for acute haemarthrosis , chronic synovitis , target joint or pain .
These investigations demonstrate transformation of human ECs to an overtly malignant phenotype .
To study tumor related angiogenesis a vascular window model was used to monitor tumor vascularity .
The later expression of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 in fibroblasts suggests a role in extracellular matrix remodeling .
These results indicate that HIF - 1 functions as a master regulator of angiogenesis by controlling the expression of multiple angiogenic growth factors and that adenovirus - mediated expression of a constitutively active form of HIF - 1alpha is sufficient to induce angiogenesis in nonischemic tissue of an adult animal .
The application of molecular technology may play an important role for the differential diagnosis between synchronous primary carcinomas and a single carcinoma with metastasis .
A significantly reduced expression of SEMA3B ( 83 kDa ) , SEMA3F ( 90 kDa ) , and plexin - A3 was observed in ovarian cancer cell lines when compared with normal human ovarian surface epithelial cells .
U - 995 is composed of two single peptides with molecular mass of 10 and 14 kDa , respectively .
This was accompanied by increased phosphorylation of the VEGF receptor 2 .
Here , HGF stimulation of melanocytes was seen to up - regulate c - Met expression .
We observed a significantly increased risk of lymph node metastasis associated with the FAS - 1377 GA or AA polymorphism [ odds ratio ( OR ) = 4 . 16 , 95 % confidence interval ( CI ) = 1 . 10 to 15 . 74 ; P = 0 . 036 ] .
Furthermore , the Runx2 / MYC combination overcomes the requirement for genetic inactivation of the p53 pathway in vivo .
However , the role of IL - 8 in non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma ( NHL ) has not been fully determined .
AQP5 was expressed mainly in cell membranes in carcinoma tissues , but was almost absent in normal breast tissues .
Leukocyte - vessel wall interactions were studied both within and outside small tumors growing in the ear , and in ear microvessels of mice with a large tumor growing on their flank .
Up - regulation of lipogenesis by androgen is one of the most characteristic metabolic features of LNCaP prostate cancer cells .
Angiogenin is up - regulated in the nucleus and cytoplasm in human primary breast carcinoma and is associated with markers of hypoxia but not survival .
CONCLUSIONS : The results suggest that annexin II and beta ( 2 ) - tubulin down - regulation is important in NPC formation and may represent potential targets for further investigations .
In contrast , we have previously reported that total nm23 messenger RNA ( mRNA ) expression is increased to similar levels in colon tumors of both high and low metastatic potential .
Consistent with these apoptotic effects , our results showed that sunitinib inhibited phosphorylation of Akt and mTOR and was followed by a reduction of S6K1 , which is a well - known target of mTOR .
The kinase reactions showed preference for ATP and MgCl2 instead of GTP or MnCl2 .
A better understanding of how p53 coordinates metabolic adaptation will facilitate the identification of novel therapeutic targets and will also illuminate the wider role of p53 in human biology .
Results show that the process : VEGF - a - - greater than EphA2 - - greater than MMPs - - greater than VM is the main pathway for VM formation and VEGF - a appears to play an important role in the formation of VM based on our in vitro assays and clinical immunohistochemical analyses .
Preliminary in vitro studies showed that the agents significantly inhibited RNA and DNA synthesis in Ehrlich ascites cells .
Viability , measured by the activity of mitochondrial dehydrogenases , was reduced significantly in the cells treated with Sim at 50 and 100 microM for 24 hours ( p < 0 . 005 ) .
A positive correlation between blood vessel volume and bone volume density was found in the younger new - bone area but not in the oldest new - bone area .
The authors report on a case series of 13 patients with recurrent heavily pretreated malignant glioma that was treated with the combination of bevacizumab and irinotecan .
This resulted in beta tumor cell metastases in distant organs and local lymph nodes , demonstrating a role for pericytes in limiting tumor cell metastasis .
The results suggest that in this strain , the malate - citrate shuttle is not an effective pathway for transferring glycolytic reducing equivalents from cytosol to mitochondria .
Interestingly , cells transformed by FLT3 and BCR / ABL mutations that confer resistance to small - molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors were still sensitive to knockdown of PIM - 2 , or PIM - 1 and PIM - 2 by RNAi .
After IL - 1Ra treatment of GK rats in vivo , most selected genes implied in endothelium / OS / immune cells / fibrosis were significantly down - regulated .
Treatment with vehicle or with 10 and 50 mg / kg of DATS resulted in a reduction in tumor volume and weight .
The cell cycle progression and sub - G1 population were analysed by flow cytometry .
In addition , the pathogenesis of some human cancers is attributed to misregulation of TGFbeta function and SMAD2 or SMAD4 mutations .
We also report that SPARC arrests monomeric collagen - supported smooth muscle cell proliferation in the late G1 - phase of the cell cycle in the absence of an effect on cell shape or on levels of cyclin - dependent kinase inhibitors .
DMI is suggested to inhibit the growth of Ca3 / 7 cells and to affect GR - mediated transcription .
The paper reviews the data available in the literature on a role of the tumor suppressor ARF in oncogenesis and considers the structure of a gene encoding ARF protein .
Reduction of TCF activity in these cells attenuates their ability to form brain and bone metastases in mice , independently of effects on tumor growth in the lungs .
It was suggested that UFT has a stronger angiogenesis - inhibitory effect than did other fluorinated pyrimidines , partly due to its pharmacokinetic properties characterized by maintaining of higher and long - lasting blood levels of 5 - FU and partly due the inhibitory effects derived from gamma - hydroxybutyric acid and gamma - butyrolactone , UFT - specific metabolites .
The glucose turnover rate was significantly greater in TB compared with NTB animals , as was the rate of glucose recycling and the rate of gluconeogenesis ( alanine leads to glucose ) , both energy demanding processes .
DNA microarray analysis allows for analysis of drug effects on multiple pathways linked to cancer and can suggest corresponding imaging tracers for further analysis as biomarkers of tumor response .
Both PLD1 and PLD2 also induced an up - regulation of the activity of matrix metalloprotease - 9 as detected by zymograms .
Cells were treated with curcumin and examined for cell viability by MTT assay .
In vivo and in vitro results .
Balb / c 3T3 cells carrying this NPC - LMP gene showed a transformed cell morphology and were tumorigenic in nude mice .
Requirement of estrogen receptor expression and function for [ 12Val ] K - Ras - mediated NIH3T3 cell transformation .
In tumor studies , P18 was more effective in blocking the angiogenesis and growth of the prostate cancer than parental 34 - mer ; in the renal cell carcinoma , P18 strongly decreased angiogenesis and halted the progression of established tumors .
BACKGROUND : Breast cancers have higher than normal glucose metabolism , but the mechanism of glucose entry into these tumors is not well understood .
Angiogenesis inhibitors have been developed to interrupt the angiogenic process at the growth factor , receptor tyrosine kinase and intracellular kinase levels .
Two of these cell cycle inhibitors , p16 ( INK4A ) and p15 ( INK4B ) , have tumor suppressor activities and are inactivated in human cancer .
Here we found that inactivation of the Notch effectors Hes1 , Hes3 and Hes5 , but not Hes1 alone , led to reduced cell proliferation , increased secretory cell formation and altered intestinal structures in adult mice .
Thrombospondin - 2 plays a protective role in multistep carcinogenesis : a novel host anti - tumor defense mechanism .
Collectively , hypoxia conditioning induced tumor cell migration by TB4 expression - dependent HIF - 1alpha stabilization .
Human K562 cells , which express PHGPX , but not GPX , were also more sensitive to t - BuOOH in the Se - deficient ( K . Se ( - ) ) than Se - satisfied ( K . Se ( + ) ) condition .
When BB - 94 , a matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor , was added to the culture medium of Ras - expressing cells , it caused a cell aggregation phenotype similar to that caused by TEL expression .
In these settings TNF demonstrates potent and selective activity on the tumor vascular bed , which strongly improves tumor response .
Altogether , these results suggest that the glycolytic pathway may be an important target for therapeutic intervention to sensitize tumor cells to selectively toxic soluble death ligands or death ligand - expressing cells of the immune system by facilitating the activation of initiator caspase - 8 .
Here , we examined the function of c - Ski in human diffuse - type gastric carcinoma OCUM - 2MLN cells .
Tumor cells express the glycolytic regulator pyruvate kinase subtype M2 ( M2 - PK ) , which can occur in a tetrameric form with high affinity to its substrate phosphoenolpyruvate ( PEP ) and a dimeric form with a low PEP affinity .
One example of particular interest is the Keap1 - Nrf2 system since , according to recent studies , it has turned out to be ambivalent .
VEGF might be an important angiogenic factor , and could promote tumor angiogenesis in LSCC .
Untransformed CEF and CEF transformed with Rous sarcoma virus also migrated to 9E3 / CEF4 protein , as measured by Boyden single - membrane analysis .
Radiologic defect area measurement results at 0 , 4 , and 16 weeks were compared between the groups .
RESULTS : PLD was significantly higher than ILD ( p < . 001 ) .
The initial step of adhesion was mediated by sialyl Lewis ( x ) ( Le ( x ) ) and sialyl Le ( a ) , the carbohydrate determinants expressed on the cancer cells , and E - selectin expressed constitutively on F - 2 cells .
METHODS : Human umbilical endothelial cells were treated with angiostatin or thalidomide and bFGF - induced proliferation was assessed with the MTT assay .
In addition , magnolol activated phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 ( PTEN ) and inactivated Akt by decreasing levels of phosphorylated PTEN and phosphorylated Akt .
Both h - MVD and VEGF immunoreactivity were statistically associated with lymph node metastasis ( P = . 012 and . 037 , respectively ) .
Studies , both in human and animal models support the notion that , various angiogenic growth factors and progenitor cells can enhance new blood vessels .
BPDE treatment caused induction of both AP - 1 and NF - kappaB activity as determined by luciferase reporter assay and only NF - kappaB induction in response to BPDE was significantly attenuated by TSC phenolic fraction whereas AP - 1 induction remains unaltered .
These findings suggest that PA through protease cascade plays a role in tumor invasion and metastasis .
Taken together , our studies , based on a molecular imaging approach for semiquantitative detection of micrometastases , point to an important role of tumor lymphatics in the metastatic process of human prostate cancer .
Although there was no significant difference of the H . pylori positivity between the two groups , the rate for both groups was higher than reported in previous studies .
RESULTS : Blood vessels initiated growth and elongated from the fat tissue fragments over 15 days .
Daily i . p . injections of HAH - cortisol into mice bearing s . c . sponge implants retarded vascularization of the sponge , and injections directly into the sponge abolished vascularization for as long as the injections were continued .
These accelerated relapses occur within 10 months of surgery for untreated patients .
Injection of VEGF - neutralizing antibodies over a 2 - week period completely blocked alinidine - stimulated angiogenesis .
The structure of the myc gene has been elucidated from studies on translocated versions of the gene .
Joint haemorrhage and subsequent haemophilic arthropathy are significant complications in haemophilia .
Indeed , we would hypothesize that these angiogenic markers - - especially the angiopoietins - - do not necessarily translate into new vessel formation in congestive heart failure ( CHF ) , but may well reflect disturbances of endothelial integrity in CHF .
Investigating the causes of increased aerobic glycolysis in tumors ( Warburg Effect ) has gone in and out of fashion many times since it was first described almost a century ago .
2 - methoxyestradiol inhibits hypoxia - inducible factor 1alpha , tumor growth , and angiogenesis and augments paclitaxel efficacy in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
Germline succinate dehydrogenase subunit A ( SDHA ) mutations have been reported in a few patients with a classical mitochondrial neurodegenerative disease .
Interleukin - 8 ( IL - 8 ) is known to be a pro - inflammatory and pro - angiogenic cytokine , and IL - 8 has been reported to be associated with tumor progression , prognosis and survival in several types of cancers .
Nine patients were started on bevacizumab at a dose of 5 mg / m2 every 2 weeks .
We recently identified GEP100 ( BRAG2 ) to be responsible for the Arf6 activation to induce invasion and metastasis , by directly binding to ligand - activated epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) .
Specimens of NSCLC and adjacent normal lung tissues were collected from 110 patients .
These data suggest that 20 - HETE stimulates superoxide formation by pathways other than apocynin - sensitive NAD ( P ) H oxidase , thereby activating MAPK and then enhancing VEGF synthesis that drives EC proliferation .
To examine the roles of LMP1 in cell proliferation and growth regulation in primary culture cells , we constructed a recombinant retrovirus containing an LMP1 gene .
In vitro migration and invasion were assessed in these cells , and the NF - kappaB activities and expression of NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules were also examined .
Honokiol has been reported to possess potent antiangiogenesis and antitumor properties in several cell lines and xenograft tumor models .
When plated in 2 % serum on dishes precoated with reconstituted basement membrane ( Matrigel ) , HUVECs infected with AdCMV . VEGF165 ( 20 pfu per cell ) differentiated into capillary - like structures .
The high - mobility group A2 gene ( HMGA2 ) is one of the most frequently amplified genes in human cancers .
However , little in vivo experimental data are available about the effects of NF - kappaB inhibition on OSCC metastasis .
However , high expression of WT1 correlates with poor prognosis in acute leukemia .
We propose that cytolytic effector and related proteins produced by putative NK and some CD8 + CD56 + postthymic T - cell lymphomas , probably in conjunction with other mechanisms , may effect massive tumor cell apoptosis .
Correlation of lymphatic vessel density and vascular endothelial growth factor with nodal metastasis in papillary thyroid microcarcinoma .
Comparison between RNA / DNA sequence of viral oncogenes and normal human genome of non - transformed cells revealed high sequence similarities in specific genomic areas , which were named cellular proto - oncogens .
To begin to explain the morphology of Ras - plus TEL - expressing cells , we demonstrated that the endogenous matrix metalloproteinase stromelysin - 1 was repressed by TEL .
Using isogenic human mammary epithelial cells ( HMEC ) at different stages of neoplastic transformation , we found that OSM signaling suppressed c - MYC expression and engaged a p16 - and p53 - independent growth arrest that required STAT3 activity .
p53 appears to be a nuclear transcription factor that plays a role in the control of cell proliferation , apoptosis , and the maintenance of genetic stability .
The combination of paclitaxel and 317615 x 2HCl resulted in 100 % 120 - day survival of SKOV - 3 bearing animals .
Thus , c - myc induction is a resistance factor and our findings suggest that tumors carrying low levels of c - Myc protein could be more responsive to vinca alkaloids treatment .
No significant correlation was found between COUP - TFII expression and age at surgery , gender , histopathologic differentiation , vessel invasion , carcinoembryonic antigen ( CEA ) , or nodal involvement .
In animal studies , 1B3 significantly enhanced the antitumor and the anti - angiogenic activities of DC101 , an antibody directed against mouse vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 , in a pancreatic ( BxPC - 3 ) and a non - small cell lung ( NCI - H460 ) tumor xenograft models .
The aim of this study was to characterize the distribution of hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 in normal and cancerous ovarian tissue and to examine the effects of LL - 37 on ovarian cancer cells .
After inhibition of gluconeogenesis , the plasma glucose decreased and the blood lactate increased significantly more in TB than NTB animals .
Long - term peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) is associated with alterations in peritoneal permeability and loss of ultrafiltration .
Capillary diameters increased significantly during pregnancy , especially after 4 weeks , when large flattened sinusoids formed .
In patients who transform to overt MDS or AML , hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is the only chance for cure .
It was the aim of this study to compare the value of measurement of glucose metabolism with that of measurement of 123I - IMT uptake for the non - invasive grading of brain tumours .
The alternative splicing of Brn - 3a mRNA produces two molecular forms : a longer , Bcl - 2 transactivating form , and a shorter inactive form , lacking 84 AA in the aminoterminus .
18F - FDG and 123I - IMT uptake was quantified as ratios between the uptake by the tumour and contralateral regions of reference .
We have previously reported in established breast lines that HIF - 1alpha levels in the presence of oxygen leads to the Warburg effect .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is a vascular growth factor which induces angiogenesis ( the development of new blood vessels ) , vascular permeability , and inflammation .
This study aimed to explore the correlation between the expression of VEGF - C in TAMs and lymphatic metastasis in human oral squamous - cell carcinoma ( OSCC ) .
Furthermore , Cox regression analysis showed that CYR61 and CTGF expression had a significant correlation with patient survival .
Furthermore , the expression levels of NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules , such as fibronectin , beta1 integrin , MMP - 1 , - 2 , - 9 , and - 14 , and VEGF - C , were upregulated in the highly metastatic cells .
Overexpression of ST3 correlated with the progression of human colorectal tumors toward local invasion and liver metastasis .
BACKGROUND : Aberrant angiogenesis is a landmark feature in cancer , which is important for proliferation , growth and metastasis , and is mediated by various pro - angiogenic factors .
No correlations were observed between glycolytic rates and pAkt levels .
We have investigated the putative role of rho proteins from Aplysia californica as transforming GTPases utilizing the wild - type and a Val - 14 mutant , equivalent to the oncogenic Val - 12 mutation of ras genes found in animal and human tumors .
Interestingly , FRTL - 5 - RhoA QL cells express less Tg and TTF - 1 than wild - type FRTL - 5 ( FRTL - 5 - vector ) or FRTL - 5 - RhoA N19 , suggesting a loss at the differentiation stage .
Migration of capillary endothelial cells is an important component of angiogenesis in vivo .
These disturbed functions are associated with suppression of signaling mechanisms implicated in EC survival and angiogenesis .
In all cases , only inhibition of PKCalpha inhibited each of these functions when compared to the inhibition of PKCbeta .
The structural and functional development of the pulmonary system is dependent upon appropriate early vascularization of the embryonic lung .
The aim of this study was to compare angiogenesis parameters in low nuclear grade ( n = 87 ) vs high nuclear grade CC - RCC ( n = 63 ) .
At univariate analysis , overexpression of c - erbB2 did not affect either DFS or OAS ; tamoxifen had a greater effect on reducing the risk of recurrence than of death .
Increased serum levels of vascular endothelial growth factor in patients with renal cell carcinoma .
In pre - B acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ) with t ( 1 ; 19 ) translocation , a fusion protein is created between E2A and a homeobox gene PBX .
Nursing actions to support the humoral and cell - mediated immune system of the burned patient include providing nutritional support to maintain serum protein levels at optimal levels ; measures to decrease edema and promote angiogenesis in areas of partial - thickness injury ; meticulous treatment of the wound to prevent infection and promote healing ; monitoring of antibiotic use ; conservative use of invasive techniques , including intubation and vascular access devices ; maintenance of fluid and electrolyte balance and body temperature ; and energy conservation measures .
Active hair growth ( anagen ) is associated with angiogenesis .
Here we report a zebrafish brca2 insertional mutant that shares phenotypes with human patients and identifies a novel brca2 function in oogenesis .
Interestingly , under normal conditions muscle cells express only a approximately 5 . 5 - kb type II HK RNA transcript .
In this study , we aimed to investigate the role of aberrations in the APC and beta - catenin genes in the pathogenesis of CRC in the Kashmir valley , and to correlate it with various clinicopathological variables .
Overall , this work verified zebrafish as a model for the role of Brca2 in human disease and uncovered a novel function of Brca2 in vertebrate oocyte nuclear architecture .
Effects of 3 - chloromethylthiochromone - 1 , 1 - dioxide on nucleic acid , protein , and aerobic and anaerobic metabolism of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells .
Intracellular glutathione levels were determined with the use of monochlorobimane , a glutathione - specific probe .
In conclusion , the decrease in c - Myc expression enhanced the VLB sensitivity , triggering earlier apoptosis through induction of the intrinsic pathway .
A third mutation involved a single base pair ( adenine ) deletion in codon 3 of H - ras which causes a frame shift , resulting in a termination signal at codon 19 .
However , the process of tumor blood vessel formation is complex , and each tumor exhibits unique features in its vasculature .
The resulting mechanistic model confirms previous work proposing that 2 - BE induces macrophage activation and inflammation in the liver .
OBJECTIVE : To study the activation of sterol regulatory element binding protein ( SREBP ) and its critical role in endothelial cell migration .
Furthermore , mast cells have no mitogenic activity for capillary endothelial cells .
The endothelial cell line expressing vGPCR was rendered sensitive to treatment with the nucleoside analogue ganciclovir by using a bicistronic construct coexpressing the herpes simplex virus 1 thymidine kinase .
OBJECTIVE : To determine the expression and clinical significance of Merlin protein in non - small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) .
Furthermore , the effects of a selective NF - kappaB inhibitor , NEMO - binding domain ( NBD ) peptide , on metastasis in GSAS / N5 - engrafted mice were assessed , and engrafted tongue tumors were immunohistochemically examined .
Highly metastatic GSAS / N3 and N5 cells showed an enhanced NF - kappaB activity , thus contributing to increased migration , invasion , and a poor prognosis compared with the parent cells .
One of the most fundamental is the ability to act as essential growth checkpoint that protects cells against cellular transformation .
These results are consistent with our initial hypothesis and lead us to propose that MKK inhibition by LeTx is a broadly effective strategy for targeting neovascularization in fibrosarcomas and other similar proliferative lesions .
However , tumor incidence was lower and life span was significantly longer in WAP - mutCK1delta / WAP - T bi - transgenic animals .
Fas - mediated cell death was examined in MCF - 10AT preneoplastic human breast epithelial cells .
In a multivariate analysis , N - stage and vascular grade were not found to be independent prognostic factors , since they were strongly related to each other .
The reduced CK1delta activity did not affect early lesion formation during tumorigenesis , suggesting that impaired CK1delta activity reduces the probability for outgrowth of in situ carcinomas to invasive carcinomas .
Each group was also divided into two subgroups according to poor and good CCC .
RASMC proliferation was unaffected by infection with AdCMV . VEGF165 .
To study the combined effects of v - erbA and v - myb , the two oncogenes were engineered into a retrovirus bicistronic vector with an internal ribosomal entry site ( IRES ) or into a vector with a splice acceptor ( SPL ) .
It was thought that potent antiangiogenic effect of cRGD - HL was probably due to the interference of alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) - mediated interaction , resulting in the enhanced antitumoral activity against SCC7 tumor .
Platelet activation occurs in the tumor microenvironment and may influence local invasion and metastasis .
The [ 18F ] FDG uptake in muscle and the whole body glucose use during euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp were compared with those of weight - matched healthy subjects studied under similar circumstances .
While the understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of IBD has recently improved , the mechanisms that link these chronic inflammatory states to colorectal cancer development are in large part unknown .
Hormonal regulation and distinct functions of semaphorin - 3B and semaphorin - 3F in ovarian cancer .
In this report we studied the effects of SFLLR , an agonist of the activated thrombin receptor and thrombin receptor peptide and non peptide antagonists on angiogenesis in the chick chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) system .
Both cell types were found to express Trp1 , but neither expressed Trp3 nor Trp6 .
This collection of reviews at the front - edge of scientific knowledge focuses on host - tumor cell interactions , the disastrous consequences they can produce and approaches the ways to break up these cellular conspiracies , to leave the tumor cells unattended and vulnerable .
Treatment with suberoylanilide hydroxamide ( SAHA ) , a histone deacetylase ( HDAC ) inhibitor , causes dose - dependent hTERT reporter activation , mimicking HMGA2 overexpression .
Determining sVAP - 1 levels may be valuable for predicting prognosis and lymph node metastasis .
Thyrotropin receptor : a role for thyroid tumourigenesis ?
This approach revealed a previously unrecognized transcriptional target of ELK - 1 , the human tissue plasminogen activator ( tPA ) .
PTHrP is also associated with the progression of skeletal metastases , and its dysregulated expression in advanced cancers causes malignancy - associated hypercalcemia .
In all of these assays , equivalent treatments with a mixture of the HAH plus cortisol was significantly less effective .
TGF alpha was studied with the appropriate antibody .
The level of neu expression , as well as the differential expression between P185neu and LAR / PTP1B , directly correlated with tumorigenicity .
The apparent molecular weights of the collagenolytic enzymes were determined by electrophoresis of cell extracts and concentrated conditioned medium in type IV collagen - embedded polyacrylamide gels followed by renaturation and activation of the enzymes within the gels .
In addition , expression of c - MYC from a constitutive promoter also abrogated the STAT3 - mediated arrest , and strikingly , cooperated with OSM to promote anchorage - independent growth ( AIG ) , a property associated with malignant transformation .
However , the exact mechanisms of ARF action yet remain unclear and require further studies by different specialists at both the molecular genetic and other levels of investigation .
Repetitive cycles of hypoxia and reoxygenation associated with changes in synovial perfusion are postulated to activate hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha and nuclear factor - kappaB , two key transcription factors that are regulated by changes in cellular oxygenation and cytokine stimulation , and that in turn orchestrate the expression of a spectrum of genes critical to the persistence of synovitis .
Truncated galectin - 3 inhibits tumor growth and metastasis in orthotopic nude mouse model of human breast cancer .
Brain pericytes in culture had higher levels of endosialin / TEM 1 than TEMs - 2 , - 3 , - 4 , - 5 , - 7 , and - 8 .
We further characterized zebrafish alpha2 integrin and discovered that this integrin is highly conserved , especially the I domain .
Along these same lines , TTF - 1 staining might prove useful in localizing the tumor origin of adenocarcinomas encountered outside of the lung .
We show that both substitution of glucose for pyruvate and treatment with 2 - deoxyglucose enhanced apoptosis induced by tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) - alpha , CD95 agonistic antibody , and TNF - related apoptosis - inducing ligand ( TRAIL ) .
Treatment of these T - cells with 5 - azacytidine resulted in the induction of DR surface antigen expression , the appearance of DR alpha mRNA , and the partial demethylation of the DR alpha DNA sequences .
Recent research suggests that EPCs have an important role in tumor vasculogenesis .
The most common toxicity was skin rash ( 40 % ) ; myelosuppression and gastrointestinal side effects were uncommon .
However , the mechanism of action and the efficiency in inducing apoptosis of these two proteins are not similar .
Differential sensitivity to these agents implies that more than one endothelial cell type must be used in proliferation assays to screen for novel anti - angiogenic compounds .
c - Ski overexpression promotes tumor growth and angiogenesis through inhibition of transforming growth factor - beta signaling in diffuse - type gastric carcinoma .
While accumlating evidence for the function of MTSS1 support the concept that it is unlikely to be a metastasis suppressor , but actually acts as a scaffold protein that interacts with multiple partners to regulate actin dynamics .
The authors concluded that , as also in the study of Northern blotting , the expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA significantly correlated inversely with lymph node metastasis in CBM , while the expression of nm23 - H2 mRNA not .
Also , a significant correlation existed between CTGF mRNA levels versus tumor grade , gender , and pathology .
Thymidylate synthase ( TS ) and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase ( DPD ) are 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) metabolizing enzymes and are involved in the sensitivity of carcinoma patients to 5 - FU .
Activity of several transcriptional factors located downstream in the Akt pathway was also tested , and constitutive activation of adenosine 3 ' , 5 ' - monophosphate response element - binding protein ( CREB ) by ICAM - 3 was detected .
Overexpression of AP - 2A resulted in a decreased proliferation rate and inhibitin of colony formation .
In a xenograft model metronomic CPT - 11 , but not 5 - FU and L - OHP , significantly inhibits HT - 29 tumor growth and microvessel density in the absence of toxicity .
RESULTS : Insulin increased VEGF mRNA levels in the ganglion , inner nuclear , and RPE cell layers .
Members of the src and ras oncogene families supplant the epidermal growth factor requirement of BALB / MK - 2 keratinocytes and induce distinct alterations in their terminal differentiation program .
In colonic carcinoma specimens , the peritumoral vessels expressed a high density of somatostatin receptors , whereas the neoplastic tissue itself was receptor - negative in many cases .
On the basis of earlier findings that ERK5 deficiency in mouse EC results in massive defects in vessel architecture , we focused on the impact of the MEK5 / ERK5 signaling pathway on EC migration .
The mechanisms by which hypoxic tumor environments induce HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression are largely unknown .
We now report that six different genes of the cluster HOX 1 are sequentially induced by RA in a similar temporal pattern , beginning with genes at the 3 ' end of the cluster .
Circulating endothelial cells and their precursors declined and remained low in responders , whereas plasma vascular endothelial growth factor trended to decline in responding patients but increase in nonresponders .
Targeting angiogenesis : progress with anti - VEGF treatment with large molecules .
Recent advances have fostered a more detailed understanding of molecular mechanisms and networks governing EMT in tumor progression .
In conclusion , FVIIa binding to TF provided protection against apoptosis induced by growth factor deprivation , primarily through activation of PI3 - kinase / Akt pathway , and to a lesser extent , p44 / 42 MAPK pathway .
Furthermore , our data indicate that loss of wt - p53 function in tumor cells may contribute to up - regulation of survivin and resistance to DNA - damaging agents .
Furthermore , LDH5 correlates positively with the prognostic marker TKTL1 .
All patients received a total dose of 16 Gy in 2 - Gy daily fractions with 5 - 6 MeV photons based on computerized treatment planning in individual head mask fixation .
A STAT3 - mediated metabolic switch is involved in tumour transformation and STAT3 addiction .
Proteome analysis of NIH3T3 cells transformed by activated Galpha12 : regulation of leukemia - associated protein SET .
NaF reduced the glucose consumption at early stage , possibly by inhibition of glycolysis , whereas cisplatin and etoposide reduced the glucose consumption at later stage , suggesting that early decline of glucose consumption is rather specific to NaF .
A panel of antibodies was used for immunohistochemistry : CD34 / Ki - 67 , carbonic anhydrase IX , hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha ( HIF - 1alpha ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
PURPOSE : The poor prognosis associated with lung cancer is related to the high incidence of regional and distant metastasis .
These data complement work that shows that HPV16 E7 also interacts with p600 , and that this interaction correlates with the ability of HPV16 E7 to transform cells .
Transient circulating levels of angioactive molecules and serial high - resolution imaging studies of focal angiogenesis might help .
Cell proliferation in each sample was assessed by using the Ki - 67 proliferation marker .
Low glucose potentiated the effect of hypoxia .
Cyclin D1 / bcl - 1 cooperates with myc genes in the generation of B - cell lymphoma in transgenic mice .
Vascular grade was not related to histology , grade , proliferation index ( Ki67 ) , or EGFR or p53 expression .
In addition , TNFalpha treatment alone led to increased malignant transformation of mouse embryo fibroblasts , which could be partially suppressed by antioxidants .
However , by treatment with Ha - ras oncogenes derived from a human lung carcinoma or Harvey murine sarcoma virus , the KMST - 6 cells acquired elevated clonability in soft agar and transplantability in nude mice .
The end result in individuals surviving burn shock is immunosuppression , with increased susceptibility to potentially fatal systemic burn wound or pulmonary sepsis .
Also , the grafts maintain a constant volume between 3 and 8 weeks , thereby indicating that primary skin fibroblasts do not produce tumors .
The relative resistance of PC - 3 cells to drug - induced apoptosis was associated with constitutive Akt activation , higher levels of cFLIP - L and Bcl - 2 , and lower levels of Bax .
Interestingly , neovascularization of the implants irradiated with 10 fractions ( 3000 cGy ) was not significantly decreased compared with irradiation with three fractions ( 900 cGy ) .
The findings suggest that elevated serum levels of S - 100beta , IL - 6 and IL - 10 reflect concurrent liver or bone metastases in melanoma .
Nevertheless , using an miR - BHRF1 - 1 and miR - BHRF1 - 3 double mutant , we could directly assess and confirm the contribution of miR - BHRF1 - 2 to B - cell transformation .
Simultaneously as the growth rate decreased , the cellular uptake of glucose and the density of a class of glucose - reversible binding sites for cytochalasin B on the cell surface were also found to be reduced .
Here , we show that gene transfer - induced p75 ( NTR ) expression impairs the survival , proliferation , migration , and adhesion capacities of cultured ECs and endothelial progenitor cells ( EPCs ) and inhibits angiogenesis in vitro .
The objective of this study is to investigate the effects of aspirin and nimesulide on cell proliferation , apoptosis and its potential mechanisms in EC9706 and EC109 esophageal squamous carcinoma cells .
9E3 / CEF4 mRNA was expressed in chicken peripheral blood monocytes , and its expression was stimulated by incubation of the monocytes with lipopolysaccharide or phorbol myristic acetate .
Furthermore , p53 overexpression by tumors was almost twice as common in the RSCM group as in the RSCB group .
Herein we show that Cbl can negatively regulate another signaling molecule , namely theSrc - family kinase Hck by targeting it for degradation .
Experiments with nu / nu mice , nonobese diabetic - SCID mice , or activated spc enriched in specific cell subpopulations demonstrated that CD4 ( + ) , CD8 ( + ) , and NK cells are all needed to mediate the full anti - angiogenetic effect of IL - 12 .
In addition , when 200 micrograms U - 995 was injected i . p . into mice it suppressed sarcoma - 180 cell growth and B16 - F10 mouse melanoma cell metastasis in vivo .
Retrospective case series of juxtafoveal choroidal neovascularization treated with photodynamic therapy with verteporfin .
The translocation of GR was induced by FA alone , DMI alone , and combination of both agents .
Transporters , enzymes , and enalapril removal in a rat ( CC531 - induced ) liver metastatic model .
To grow , invade and metastasize , a treacherous society between cancer and host cells must be formed , and this association provides novel and effective clinical targets for cancer control and prevention .
Because these phenomena are all of critical importance during morphogenesis , and because FAK is expressed in embryonic cells , evidence has been accumulating to indicate that FAK may be an important modulator of developmental processes .
Insulin - like growth factor 1 receptor enhances invasion and induces resistance to apoptosis of colon cancer cells through the Akt / Bcl - x ( L ) pathway .
These findings have suggested that diabetes mellitus may have a different action on retinal and coronary circulation .
It is concluded that curcumin inhibits the adhesion and invasion of MCF - 7 cells through down - regulating the protein expression of uPA via of NF - kappaB activation .
METHODS : Standard therapy with primary resection followed by adjuvant chemotherapy and radiation had failed in all patients .
Ectopic overexpression of junB induced transformation of revertant EMS - 1 - 19 , but failed to transform Rat - 1 cells .
The proteins with differential expression were analyzed in 40 undifferentiated NPC paraffin - embedded specimens .
These results indicate that Hyp is a powerful anti - inflammatory compound with therapeutic potential , and they elucidate mechanistic keys .
The induction of Ets - 1 in ECs after denudation was regulated transcriptionally , and humeral factors released from injured ECs might not be responsible .
Estradiol increases IL - 8 secretion of normal human breast tissue and breast cancer in vivo .
Elevated vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) secretion by malignant cells enhanced recruitment of endothelial cells ( EC ) in heterotypic cocultures .
Intramolecular self - phosphorylation of Tyr1173 removes a competitive inhibitory constraint to enhance phosphorylation of substrates .
Our results strongly suggest that estradiol has a critical role in the regulation of IL - 8 in normal human breast tissue and human breast cancer .
Effects of 4 - alkylmorpholine N - oxides on ATP - producing processes in Ehrlich ascites and L1210 leukaemia cells .
The treatment possibilities for ischemia - related vascular disease are limited .
Protection from experimental ocular herpetic keratitis by a heat - killed virus vaccine .
Moreover , both the accelerated translation and the previously reported reactive oxygen species - mediated stabilization of HIF - 1alpha protein were essential to the activation of HIF - 1 .
Under normal conditions insulin regulates expression of hexokinase Type II isoenzyme , which is predominantly expressed in muscle .
Although antibodies to PAI - 1 did not affect the adhesion of HT1080 cells to vitronectin , the antibody to uPA reduced their attachment .
These results suggest that in leukemic cells N - glycosylation of Glut - 1 plays an important role in maintaining its structure and functional integration .
When injected in human breast cancer xenografts , pAd - T34A inhibited growth of established tumors and triggered tumor cell apoptosis in vivo .
These results demonstrate that functional collaboration exists between p18 and Men1 and suggest that Men1 may regulate additional factor ( s ) that interact with p18 and p27 differently .
Thus , metabolically - altered islet endothelium might affect the beta - cell microenvironment and contribute to progressive type 2 diabetic beta - cell dysfunction in GK rats .
31P MR spectra showed that phosphocreatine was present in H5 spheroids but not in H4 spheroids or tumors .
Under specific conditions , casein could be used as an exogenous substrate as well .
Regulation of tumor angiogenesis by thrombospondin - 1 .
Furthermore , we show that p53 is activated in virally infected cells to evoke an apoptotic response and that p53 is critical for antiviral defence of the host .
Growth factor mRNA expression analyses revealed a higher expression of angiopoietin 2 in low - grade CC - RCC .
Caspase activation , mitochondrial depolarization , and cytochrome c release were increased under these conditions .
Using a murine incisional wound healing model this study was carried out to investigate the roles of estrogen and progesterone on macrophage activation during the wound healing response .
Here , we show that NCAM - deficient beta cell tumors grew leaky blood vessels with perturbed pericyte - endothelial cell - cell interactions and deficient perivascular deposition of ECM components .
Metabolic regulation by p53 .
To understand the molecular basis of carcinogenesis from the beginning to the full acquirement of malignancy , factors concerned with carcinogenesis were categorized into three groups : those guarding and stabilizing genomes , those regulating cell proliferation , and those conferring resistance to various micro - environmental stresses .
Semaphorin 7A ( Sema7A ) is a membrane - linked semaphorin that is expressed by human keratinocytes , and we have shown that Sema7A binds to human melanocytes through beta1 - integrins and the Plexin C1 receptor .
Taken together , our data indicate that in VHL disease , therapy directed at inhibition of constitutively expressed VEGF induction of angiogenesis by VHL tumors may constitute an effective medical treatment .
The therapeutic efficacy of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS was determined by monitoring tumor volume , survival rate , and degree of neovascularization after treatment in these models .
This perspective places the report by Villani et al . that appears in this issue of the journal ( beginning on page 1222 ) in the context of recent work showing an intersection between two important developmental pathways implicated in oncogenesis : the hedgehog and insulin - like growth factor ( IGF ) pathways .
Consequently , cells were more rigid and show reduced motility .
Plasmid DNA encoding each of the three principal human VEGF isoforms ( phVEGF121 , phVEGF165 , or phVEGF189 ) was applied to the hydrogel polymer coating of an angioplasty balloon and delivered percutaneously to one iliac artery of rabbits with operatively induced hindlimb ischemia .
Measuring ouabain - sensitive 22Na efflux and using ouabain - sensitive lactate production as a measure of ATP hydrolysis by the Na + K + pump , it was shown that Nonidet P - 40 greatly decreased the efficiency of the Na + K + pump .
Only a subset of patients is suitable for laser coagulation .
This study suggests that the expression of HSP27 is frequently promoted in patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma and should be considered an independent prognostic factor of oral squamous cell carcinoma patients .
We situate invasion within microecosystems comprising neoplastic cells as well as host cells .
Expressions of KISS1 mRNA and protein were significantly higher in low TNM stages of NSCLC ( I - II ) compared to more advanced stages ( III - IV ) ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
Both agents inhibited angiogenesis and induced apoptosis when compared to tumors from control animals .
Integrins and growth factors are capable of activating the ras / MAP kinase pathway in vitro , yet how these signals influence endothelial cells during angiogenesis is unknown .
Bilateral central lymphadenectomy was performed in all patients in addition to thyroidectomy .
There is accumulating evidence that the tissue damage associated with chronic wounds is initiated and propagated by an inappropriately excessive inflammatory response .
It is believed that the role of the E1B - 55kDa protein in transformation is to protect against p53 - dependent apoptosis by binding to and inactivating p53 .
Together , the results of this study identify molecular mechanisms that initiate hemangiosarcoma , a key step in understanding safety concerns that can impact drug decision processes , and identified hypoxia as a possible contributing factor for 2 - BE - induced hemangiosarcoma in mice .
The Mr 64 , 000 enzyme could be extracted from viable cells ( presumably from the cell membrane ) by 2 % 1 - butanol .
The dominant negative mutant of Rac1 completely inhibited ephrin - B1 - induced membrane ruffling and focal complex assembly .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the effect of osteopontin silencing on the invasion and apoptosis of U251 cells .
[ Photodynamic therapy in severe chronic central serous chorioretinopaty ]
After additional prednisolone treatment from day 9 or 15 after inoculation , no significant difference was detected in the recultivation rate of C . albicans compared with the control .
We also established that doxorubicin treatment induces proliferation arrest and FOXO3a nuclear relocation in sensitive breast cancer cells .
Taken together , these results demonstrate that overexpression of TIMP - 3 can inhibit angiogenesis and associated tumor growth , and that the antiangiogenic effects of TIMP - 3 appear to be mediated through the inhibition of functional capillary morphogenesis .
Role of stromal myofibroblasts in invasive breast cancer : stromal expression of alpha - smooth muscle actin correlates with worse clinical outcome .
Western blotting analysis showed that liposomal honokiol - inhibited Akt and MAPK phosphorylation in 2 endothelial cells , and downregulated expressions of VEGFR - 2 of human vascular endothelial cells and VEGFR - 3 of lymphatic endothelial cells .
Together these findings establish Wnt signaling as a metastasis regulator in melanoma .
We identified dynein light chain 1 ( DLC1 ) as a physiologic substrate of p21 - activated kinase 1 ( Pak1 ) .
Disturbances in expression of apoptosis - associated proteins take part in the development and progression of many human malignancies .
The elevated serum TNF - alpha level observed following MTX treatment was depressed with L - Car .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , a recently identified growth factor with significant angiogenic properties , may be a major tumor angiogenesis regulator .
Macrophages can be activated in a classical or alternative manner in parallel with the T ( H ) 1 / T ( H ) 2 dichotomy , respectively .
The presence of activating TSH - R mutations has also been demonstrated in differentiated thyroid carcinomas .
Cell death induced by survivin targeting exhibited the hallmarks of mitochondrial - dependent apoptosis with release of cytochrome c and loss of mitochondrial transmembrane potential and was suppressed in Apaf - 1 or caspase - 9 knockout mouse embryonic fibroblasts .
In cultured stable Grm1 - mouse - melanocytic clones , as well as an metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 ( Grm1 ) expressing human melanoma cell line , C8161 , stimulation of Grm1 by its agonist led to the activation of AKT , while preincubation with Grm1 - antagonist abolished Grm1 - agonist - induced AKT activation .
Betulin induces mitochondrial cytochrome c release associated apoptosis in human cancer cells .
In addition , the expression of Bcl - 2 , uPA , MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 was decreased , while Bax level was elevated .
Mathematical models and empirical observations are used to define the adaptive advantage of aerobic glycolysis that would explain its remarkable prevalence in human cancers .
A reduction in alpha - catenin expression and p53 overexpression correlated to lymph node metastases , respectively .
CONCLUSION : The up - regulation of HER2 and B ( 1 ) R in precursor lesions of gallbladder carcinoma suggests cross - talk between these two receptors that may be of importance in the modulation of cell proliferation in gallbladder carcinogenesis .
Cisplatin reduces endothelial cell migration via regulation of type 2 - matrix metalloproteinase activity .
In situ fluorescent end labeling was used to label apoptotic cells .
In addition , ischemia induces expression of HIF1alpha in hypoxic tissue .
When a confluent monolayer of human umbilical vein endothelial cell line , ECV304 , was denuded , ECV304 at the wound edge expressed Ets - 1 .
Serum deprivation - induced apoptosis of BHK ( + TF ) cells was characterized by apoptotic blebs , nuclei with chromatin - condensed bodies , DNA degradation , and activation of caspase 3 .
In both of the other two cases , the patterns of X - chromosome inactivation clearly demonstrated the presence of independent primary tumors .
The genetic basis of increased glycolytic activity observed in cancer cells is likely to be the result of complex interactions of multiple regulatory pathways .
Our findings suggest with a reduction of steroid hormones following ovariectomy , alternatively activated macrophage markers ( Fizz1 and Ym1 ) were reduced , with this effect being reversed with the administration of estrogen or progesterone ; suggesting that with the reduction of steroid hormones macrophages are activated in a classical manner , promoting inflammation , whereas estrogen or progesterone are contributing toward macrophage activation in an alternative manner , driving wound repair , angiogenesis , and remodeling .
The increased migration ability and the invasive ability into tumor cluster of TGF - beta - treated NIH3T3 cells were dose dependently inhibited by TSP - 1 .
These include activated macrophages , sensitized lymphocytes , and adipocytes .
Blocking Dex - induced MKP - 1 induction using small interfering RNA increased ERK1 / 2 and JNK phosphorylation and decreased cell survival .
Antibodies to PAI - 1 alter the invasive and migratory properties of human tumour cells in vitro .
The success of current systemic and intravesical therapeutic agents , such as cisplatin , thiotepa , Adriamycin , mitomycin C , and bacillus Calmette - Guerin , is limited with recurrence rates reduced to 17 - 44 % .
Low transcript expression alone ( P = 0 . 003 ) or combined with methylation ( P = 0 . 019 ) was associated with poor disease - specific survival ( n = 205 ) .
In this review , the role of TSH - R gene alterations in benign and malignant thyroid neoplasia is examined .
These results indicated that Crk plays a critical role in Rac1 - induced membrane ruffling and Rap1 - mediated nascent focal complex stabilization contributing to ephrin - B1 - induced human aortic endothelial cells migration .
Furthermore , we determined the ability of U - 995 to inhibiting tumor cell growth and metastasis .
Inhibition of Dll4 - mediated signaling induces proliferation of immature vessels and results in poor tissue perfusion .
Consistent with this hypothesis , inhibition of Erbb2 in v - ras ( Ha ) transgenic mice before UV exposure resulted in both 56 % fewer skin tumors and tumors that were 70 % smaller .
BACKGROUND : Bone morphogenetic proteins ( BMPs ) exert osteoinductive effects in prostate cancer ( PC ) via uncharacterized mechanisms .
Previous work demonstrates that the LMP1 gene of EBV is sufficient to transform certain established rodent fibroblast cell lines and to induce the tumorigenicity of some human epithelial cell lines .
Runx2 and MYC collaborate in lymphoma development by suppressing apoptotic and growth arrest pathways in vivo .
They were consistent with the concept of the existence of 2 pools of both lactate and pyruvate , of which 1 pool was closely connected with exogenous lactate and oxidative metabolism , and the other pool was closely related to glycolysis and disconnected from oxidative metabolism .
IGF - 1 enhances cell proliferation and survival .
Both small RNAs contain a latency promoter binding factor consensus recognition sequence located toward their 5 ' ends as well as two potential ICP4 recognition consensus sequences , one in each orientation .
Moreover , in advanced TNM stages , cases without metastasis had higher KISS1 gene expression compared to those with lymph node metastasis ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
DPD expression did not significantly correlate with the occurrence of lymph node metastasis , nor was it different between primary oral cancer cells and cervical metastases .
The angiogenic switch occurred in early stages of pre - malignant tumor formation , and tumor angiogenesis was significantly enhanced in TSP - 2 - deficient mice .
Placental angiogenesis , which is physiologically normal , may serve as a general model of this process in other circumstances , such as tumor .
Finally , anti - p53 monoclonal antibodies only slightly affected in vitro phosphorylation reactions , whereas a p53 molecule from a simian virus 40 - free , chemically transformed human cell line was not phosphorylated in vitro under any condition tested .
Moreover , there is a positive correlation between phosphoS727 - Stat3 expression and Gleason score in these prostate cancer tissues ( P = 0 . 05 ) .
Three patients ( 14 % ) regained 2 or more lines of visual acuity .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the effect of adenovirus - mediated endostatin gene transfer on transplanted lung cancer in mice and its mechanism of action .
METHODS : We assessed antiapoptotic and proapoptotic markers in vascular and perivascular cells in lung biopsy samples from 18 patients with CHD , 7 with reversible and 11 with irreversible PHT , and 6 control patients .
A series of epithelial cell lines and a single fibroblast cell line established in this way were analysed for the presence of transforming genes by DNA transfection into NIH3T3 cells .
Increased glycolysis is a characteristic of cancer cells .
This work does not confirm reports that NSAID ' s have anti - edema activity and suggests that there may be no correlation between ' angiostatic ' and anti - edema activity in certain steroid compounds .
In order to understand the underlying mechanism by which TSC phenolic fraction potentiates BPDE - induced tumorigenicity , we examined its effect on the activation of two transcription factors AP - 1 and NF - kappaB which are known to be influenced by established tumor promoter TPA .
Dopamine administration leads to increased VEGF - induced phosphorylation of SHP - 2 and this increased phosphorylation parallels the increased phosphatase activity of SHP - 2 .
Homeostasis of the extracellular matrix is a delicate balance between degradation and remodeling , the balance being maintained by the interaction of activated matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) and specific tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases ( TIMPs ) .
Up - regulation of PFKFB2 expression was mediated by the direct binding of ligand - activated androgen receptor to the PFKFB2 promoter .
Presence of subfoveal CNV at 6 and 12 months of follow - up was determined by review of fluorescein angiograms .
Cancer cells are different from normal cells in their metabolic properties .
We have investigated the expression of osteonectin gene in fresh BALB / c fibroblasts transformed by v - Ki - ras .
EPOX inhibits angiogenesis by degradation of Mcl - 1 through ERK inactivation .
Involved introns contain homology to recombination signal sequence ( RSS ) heptamers present in the V ( D ) J region of the T lymphocyte receptor gene .
This remodeling process seems to be mainly flow - mediated .
In contrast , intact beta2GPI does not bind to AS4 . 5 or inhibit its antiangiogenic activity .
Possible translation of our knowledge to cancer therapeutics will also be discussed .
KISS1 transcript expression was also associated with histopathological tumor stage ( P < 0 . 0005 ) .
Rats that were irradiated twice ( single fractions at 0 and 24 hours after implantation ) did not show a significant decrease in the neovascularization of the irradiated implant compared with the contralateral control implant .
The organism prevents malignant transformation by assuring accurate DNA repair before cell division , by forcing the death of cells with excessive DNA damage , and by placing limits on the replicative lifespans of most somatic cells .
Together these results indicated that the revertant phenotype did not result from altered expression or mutations in the c - jun gene .
In contrast , expression of kinase - dead PIM - 2 mutant ( PIM - 2KD ) led to a rapid decline of survival in Ba / F3 cells transformed by FLT3 - ITD but not by other oncogenic PTKs tested .
Molecular analysis of genetic instability caused by chronic inflammation .
Blocking the activation of p44 / 42 mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) by the specific mitogen - induced extracellular kinase ( MEK ) inhibitor , U0126 , impaired modestly the ability of FVIIa to promote cell survival .
Overall , our findings identify AMPK as an important target protein for mediating the anti - tumor properties of AglRhz in HT - 29 colon cancer cells and have important implication for sponges , the most important marine source , in colon cancer .
Both PLD1 - and PLD2 - mediated cell cycle distributions in stable cell lines revealed an increased fraction of cells in the S phase compared with control cells .
Mice with EC - specific deletion of Dicer , a key enzyme for generating miRNAs , display defective postnatal angiogenesis .
The mechanisms that confer this rapid metastatic capacity to lung tumors are unknown .
Combined topical fluconazole and corticosteroid treatment for experimental Candida albicans keratomycosis .
RESULTS : Approximate 1 , 000 protein spots were detected on silver - stained gel by ImageMaster ( 977 + / - 113 spots in Hep3B , 1092 + / - 40 in MHCC97L , and 889 + / - 14 in MHCC97H ) .
We investigated the presence of COUP - TFII in human colorectal cancer tissues and adjacent normal tissues from 95 primary colorectal cancer patients by immunohistochemistry .
Commonality exists in the processes involved in vasculature development between tissues whether healthy or diseased .
Selenoperoxidase - dependent glutathione cycle activity in peroxide - challenged leukemia cells .
The resultant tumors display lumen - like morphology , contain carcinoma - like focal areas with intercellular junctions resembling desmosomes , and coexpress epithelial ( cytokeratin ) and mesenchymal ( vimentin ) cytoskeletal markers .
The expression of 14 - 3 - 3zeta was upregulated in stage I NSCLC .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : c - erbB2 , evaluated by immunohistochemistry in 145 of 173 patients randomly assigned to 2 - year adjuvant tamoxifen or no further therapy , was considered overexpressed if greater than 10 % of the cells showed specific membrane staining .
Many of the circulatory and transport properties of the sheep placenta are similar to those of the human placenta and as such , the pregnant sheep offers an excellent model in which to study the development of IUGR .
Apoptosis ( programmed cell death ) regulates cell population size .
LMP1 of Epstein - Barr virus induces proliferation of primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts and cooperatively transforms the cells with a p16 - insensitive CDK4 oncogene .
Activation of Ca2 + entry is known to produce endothelial cell shape change , leading to increased permeability , leukocyte migration , and initiation of angiogenesis in conduit - vessel endothelial cells .
This has been suggested as one of the mechanisms to explain the mammography paradox for women aged 40 - 49 years .
The apoptosis induced by Sim is probably initiated by the mitochondrial caspase 9 , which indirectly leads to activation of caspase 3 and 8 .
Gene array analysis identified significant increases in the expression of mammary epithelial growth factors Wisp2 and Igf - 1 in Tip30 ( - / - ) cells .
However , the mechanism by which E7 contributes to cellular transformation is unknown .
Malignant cells often display defects in autophagy , an evolutionarily conserved pathway for degrading long - lived proteins and cytoplasmic organelles .
It is concluded that its action is targeted to tumor neovasculature and the mechanism is inhibition of tumor angiogenesis .
The effect of swainsonine ( active compound of locoweed and a potential anticancer drug ) on vascular development showed no differences in sinusoidal diameters at 7 weeks , but a decrease in capillary density was noted .
In vivo animal models of tissue injury and in vitro data also implicate syndecans in processes necessary for wound healing , including fibroblast and endothelial proliferation , cell motility , angiogenesis , and extracellular matrix organization .
The present study was therefore designed to evaluate the expression of thrombospondin 1 and 2 ( TSP - 1 , TSP - 2 ) , TSP receptors CD36 and CD47 , and matrix - metalloproteases 2 and 9 ( MMP - , MMP - 9 ) in a rat prostate cancer model .
Due to space limitations , we can not review the molecular control of CNS angiogenesis , but refer the reader to other chapters in this book and to recent publications on the assembly of the vasculature ( 1 , 2 ) .
These new insights into the involvement of syndecans in disease and tissue repair coupled with the emergence of syndecan - specific molecular tools may lead to novel therapies for a variety of human diseases .
c - kit gene mutation may play a significant role in the pathogenesis of GIST and also may be a prognostic marker .
BACKGROUND : M - CSF recruits mononuclear phagocytes which regulate processes such as angiogenesis and metastases in tumors .
Thus , Fas could be involved in bovine lactoferrin - mediated inhibition of tumor development .
The grafts were implanted in the abdominal aortic position of 24 dogs autologously .
We examined the effect of distraction rate on blood vessel growth in intramembraneous ossification after vertical distraction osteogenesis in the human mandible .
The merits of vascular targeting for gynecologic malignancies .
This suggests that FOXO3a is a potential suppressor of carcinogenic damage in LAC .
The heightened sensitivity of VHL - deficient cells was not attributed to dissimilar energy requirements or to differences in glucose uptake , but more likely reflects a lesser ability of VHL - deficient cells to handle abnormally processed proteins arising from impaired glycosylation .
Smooth muscle - rich tissues respond to mechanical overload by an adaptive hypertrophic growth combined with activation of angiogenesis , which potentiates their mechanical overload - bearing capabilities .
In patients with pancreatic carcinoma , the levels of fibrinogen in the group with jaundice were significantly higher than in patients without jaundice ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
We failed to find the statistical difference between IMVD and tumor T - stage in LSCC .
In the present study , we investigated in vivo the regulation of leukocyte - vessel wall interactions by the presence of a tumor .
The latter effect is called reperfusion injury and can cause as much damage as the ischemia .
A significant increase was observed in flt - 1 ( P less than 0 . 001 ) , KDR ( P = 0 . 02 ) , and flt - 4 ( P = 0 . 01 ) but not VEGF - B ( P = 0 . 82 ) or VEGF - C ( P = 0 . 52 ) expression in clear cell compared with chromophil ( papillary ) carcinomas .
Associations with cancer risk were estimated using two - sided logistic regression .
Many studies on carcinogenesis carried out early in the last century are united on the consensus that cancer is a genetic disease .
The ability of CLA to inhibit angiogenesis may contribute to its efficacy as a chemopreventive agent .
METHODS : Human fat tissue fragments from surgery were placed in 96 - well plates , embedded in fibrin thrombin clot and overlaid with cell culture media containing 20 % fetal bovine serum .
Hypoxia - responsive element - mediated soluble Tie2 vector exhibits an anti - angiogenic activity in vitro under hypoxic condition .
We verified the predicted ELK - 1 - - > tPA transcriptional regulatory relationship using a luciferase reporter assay .
Depending on the cell type , expression of ANGPT1 and ANGPT2 was either activated or repressed in response to hypoxia or AdCA5 .
The p53 protein suppresses tumorigenesis by initiating cellular functions such as cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in response to DNA damage .
Our data indicates that this therapeutic approach markedly promotes angiogenesis and granulation tissue formation in comparison with other conditions 14 days after wounding .
These observations have led to the idea that factors in the host downmodulate the E - cadherin complex and promote invasion most probably in a transient way .
Cell type - specific regulation of angiogenic growth factor gene expression and induction of angiogenesis in nonischemic tissue by a constitutively active form of hypoxia - inducible factor 1 .
These RNAs were not detected by Northern ( RNA ) hybridization in productively infected chicken embryo fibroblasts 48 h postinfection ; however , they were apparent 140 h postinfection .
Here we report that a candidate tumour suppressor gene , ING4 , is involved in regulating brain tumour growth and angiogenesis .
The function of p53 tumor suppressor is often altered in various human tumors predominantly through missense - mutations resulting in accumulation of mutant proteins .
The mammalian proto - oncogene Cbl and its cellular homologues in Caenorhabditis elegans ( Sli - 1 ) and Drosophila ( D - Cbl ) are negative regulators of some growth factor receptor signaling pathways .
cDNA microarray expression analysis showed that the mouse homologue of Dss1 is induced by TPA .
Two approaches were used to measure protein kinase C : assay of intact cells for inhibition of epidermal growth factor ( EGF ) binding in response to phorbol dibutyrate ( PDBu ) ; and assay of detergent extracts for total calcium , phospholipid - dependent kinase activity .
To determine if hypoxic activation of these stress activated protein kinases regulated HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression , we assayed JNK1 and p38 activity in squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) lines grown under normoxic or hypoxic conditions .
Although the number of mutations in the APC and beta - catenin genes in our CRC cases was very low , the study confirms the role of epigenetic gene silencing of the pivotal molecular gladiator , APC , of the Wnt pathway in the development of CRC in the Kashmiri population .
Relationship of p53 and Helicobacter pylori to clinicopathological features of human remnant stomach cancer after gastric surgery for primary gastric cancer .
CONCLUSIONS : PE is a useful prognostic predictor of CR and OS for AML / MDS patients .
CONCLUSIONS / SIGNIFICANCE : Together these data suggest that lymph node metastasis and poor survival in invasive ductal breast carcinoma are linked to an uncoupling of the Akt - FOXO3a signaling axis .
BX471 ( R - N - [ 5 - chloro - 2 - [ 2 - [ 4 ( 4 - fluorophenyl ) methyl ] - 2 - methyl - 1 - piperazinyl ] - 2 - oxoethoxy ] phenyl ] urea hydrochloric acid salt ) , a CCR1 antagonist , inhibits angiogenic properties of CCL16 , whereas blocking of CCR8 or desensitizing CCR2 , which are both well known receptors for CCL16 , did not abolish endothelial activation .
Newly formed bone densities were also found to be higher in these 2 groups .
BACKGROUND : Angiogenesis plays an important role in maintaining adequate oxygen delivery , and nitric oxide ( NO ) is a potential regulator of angiogenesis .
Activation of the canonical WNT / TCF pathway is identified here as a determinant of metastasis to brain and bone during lung adenocarcinoma progression .
No vessels were visualized in the controls .
Recombinant human prothrombin kringle - 2 inhibits B16F10 melanoma metastasis through inhibition of neovascularization and reduction of matrix metalloproteinase expression .
The effects of IGF - 1 are mediated principally through the IGF - 1R but are modulated by complex interactions with multiple IGF binding proteins that themselves are regulated by phosphorylation , proteolysis , polymerization , and cell or matrix association .
This study indicates that the simultaneous presence of ITC and VEGFR - 1 expression at premetastatic sites is clinically significant for disease progression .
Concentrations achieved in vivo in tumors lead to single - agent anti - tumor activity at non - toxic doses .
BAG - 1L also potentiated transactivation of known vitamin - D - responsive gene promoters , osteocalcin and 24 - hydroxylase , and enhanced VDR - dependent transcription and protein expression of the keratinocyte differentiation marker , involucrin .
The permeability of plasma membranes for K + increases 2 . 75 fold , while the passive flux of Na + diminishes .
Interventional strategies showed that existing therapeutic modalities for asthma , such as inhaled corticosteroids , were sufficient to block the enhanced pulmonary recruitment of cancer cells from circulation .
We demonstrate directly that the wild - type 55 - kDa protein is able to block E1A - induced p53 - dependent apoptosis , whereas cells infected by mutant pm490 / 1 / 5A , which contains alanine residues at all three phosphorylation sites , exhibited extensive DNA fragmentation and classic apoptotic cell death .
Furthermore , beclin 1 heterozygous disruption results in increased cellular proliferation and reduced autophagy in vivo .
Treatment with 317615 x 2HCl alone increased the lifespan of animals bearing intraperitoneal SKOV - 3 xenografts by 1 . 9 fold compared with untreated control animals .
The only CD8 + CD56 + postthymic T - cell lymphoma also expressed all three cytolytic markers , two CD8 - ALCL expressed TIA1 ; other postthymic T - cell , T - lymphoblastic , and B - cell lymphomas were consistently negative .
GM - CSF and IL - 2 vaccine therapy and pretreatment with gammaIFN represent effective strategies in reducing hepatic tumor .
Inhibitor of differentiation - 1 ( Id - 1 ) is a member of helix - loop - helix ( HLH ) family of proteins that regulate gene transcription through their inhibitory binding to basic - HLH transcription factors .
BACKGROUND : Neurotrophins mediate their effects by binding to members of the Trk family of receptor tyrosine kinases and to the low - affinity nerve growth factor receptor p75 .
Exposure to platelets resulted in significantly increased uPA and VEGF content of SKOV3 cell conditioned medium .
To address this question , we used the proteomic approach of tandem affinity purification to identify cellular proteins that are in complex with E7 , and identified the 600 - kDa protein , p600 , as a binding partner of E7 .
Angiogenesis is a key event in the progression of malignant gliomas .
Almost all patients respond to G - CSF with increased neutrophils , reduced infections , and improved survival .
Adenovirus 5 E1A enhances histone deacetylase inhibitors - induced apoptosis through Egr - 1 - mediated Bim upregulation .
LDH5 overexpression was associated with histological type ( adenocarcinoma = 57 % , squamous cell carcinoma = 45 % , large cell carcinoma = 46 % , p = 0 . 006 ) .
The expression of TIMP1 suggests that the anti - proteolytic stimuli may be preponderant in p63 - positive carcinomas .
They were also variably resistant to the anti - proliferative and anti - invasive signals from TGFbeta .
We identify here hADA3 , human homologue of the yeast transcriptional coactivator yADA3 , as a novel E6 - interacting protein and a target of E6 - induced degradation .
The mice that received Hoxa9 / Meis1 - transduced bone marrow cells developed acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) , and Trib1 , Evi1 , Ahi1 , Raralpha , Pitpnb , and AK039950 were identified as candidate cooperative genes located near common retroviral integration sites .
METHODS : Corneas of 105 rabbits were infected with viable yeast cells of C . albicans ( 2 . 5 x 10 ( 5 ) ) .
The effects of 5T4 expression on morphology and motility are separable since cells transfected with a truncated form of 5T4 cDNA in which the cytoplasmic domain is deleted reveal that the latter is necessary to abrogate actin / cadherin - containing contacts but does not influence the effects on motility .
But because these experiments were performed on confluent cultures of established cell lines , the differences are difficult to attribute to ras transformation .
Taken together , the lines of evidence demonstrate that betulin triggers apoptosis of human cancer cells through the intrinsic apoptotic pathway .
In contrast , KATO III cells expressed membrane CXCR4 .
Clinically , patients with advanced cancer are usually in a hypercoagulable state with elevated fibrinogen , and fibrin deposition around tumor mass is a serious problem in cancer chemotherapy .
Highly sensitive reverse - transcription polymerase chain reaction identifies an induction and overexpression of a type II - like tumor HK RNA in a range of cancer cell lines irrespective of tissue origin .
The cell type specific glycosylation protects Sp1 and HIF1alpha from proteosome degradation and plays an important and novel role in the regulation of VEGF in DCN transfected MCE cells .
OBJECTIVE : To determine the impact of thalidomide and angiostatin on tumor growth , angiogenesis , and apoptosis in a xenograft model of cervical cancer .
Alpha - melanocyte - stimulating hormone ( alpha - MSH ) has evolved as a mediator of diverse biological activities in an ever - growing number of non - melanocytic cell types .
The UFO proto - oncogene maps to human chromosome 19q13 . 1 and is transcribed into two 5 . 0 kb and 3 . 2 kb mRNAs in human bone marrow and human tumor cell lines .
Effect of antitumor agents on cytotoxicity induction by sodium fluoride .
BACKGROUND : Compound targeting histone deacetylase ( HDAC ) represents a new era in molecular cancer therapeutics .
These results suggest that non - thrombogenic agonists or antagonists of the activated thrombin receptor can be used as modulators of angiogenesis .
Moreover , renal carcinoma cell lines also released the soluble form of CD154 into the supernatant .
Recently , considerable attentions have been devoted to the physiological roles of angiopoietin ( Ang ) - 1 and - 2 as regulatory factors of VEGF .
Conversion of these sites to alanine residues greatly reduced transforming activity , and although the mutant 55 - kDa protein was found to interact with p53 at normal levels , it was somewhat defective for suppression of p53 transactivation activity .
On the other hand , hypermethylation of CpG islands in the final sigma gene was detected in 91 % ( 75 / 82 ) of breast tumors and was associated with lack of gene expression .
WT1 was isolated as a tumor suppressor gene of Wilms tumor .
The E7 oncoprotein of bovine papillomavirus type 1 ( BPV - 1 ) is required for the full transformation activity of the virus .
Clinical implication of expression of cyclooxygenase - 2 and peroxisome proliferator activated - receptor gamma in epithelial ovarian tumours .
Using MDA - MB - 231 cells , in which FOXO3a activity can be induced by 4 - hydroxytamoxifen , we showed that FOXO3a induction up - regulates PI3K - Akt activity and enhanced doxorubicin resistance .
Sanguinarine induces apoptosis of human osteosarcoma cells through the extrinsic and intrinsic pathways .
This is primarily based on limited in vitro studies on tumor cells derived from transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder that revealed a dose - and time - dependent inhibition of cell growth by ciprofloxacin at concentrations that are easily attainable in the urine of patients .
To determine the mechanisms whereby hematopoietic growth factors ( HGFs ) modulate apoptosis in human myeloid leukemic cells , we evaluated the roles of protein and mRNA synthesis for altering apoptosis in growth factor - stimulated vs . quiescent leukemic TF1 cells .
Proof of principle of the combined diagnosis / treatment system design for performing dye - enhanced photocoagulation ( DEP ) in the clinical setting and determination of the minimum DEP laser energy needed to close CNV FVs was made in 11 AMD patients requiring treatment of CNV , but for whom other treatment was not appropriate .
John ' s wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) , has emerged as key player not only in the antidepressant activity of the plant but also as an inhibitor of bacteria lymphocyte and tumor cell proliferation , and matrix proteinases .
This event is independent of fibrin formation .
The early closure of all wounds implies that the rabbit ear model may not be valid for chronic wound studies .
The interaction of virally derived and endogenous cellular proteins converges in deregulation of cell cycle progression and appears to be critical for the development of cervical cancers .
Roles of cell adhesion molecules mediating the interaction of cancer and endothelial cells in tumor angiogenesis were investigated using new in vitro and in vivo model systems with a cultured murine endothelial cell line ( F - 2 ) and human cultured epidermoid cancer cells ( A431 ) .
CONCLUSION : Together , our findings suggest that RASSF1C , unlike RASSF1A , is not a tumor suppressor , but instead may play a role in stimulating metastasis and survival in breast cancer cells .
We propose that the upregulation of the secreted FGF - BP protein during early phases of pancreas and colon cancer could make this protein a possible serum marker indicating the presence of high - risk premalignant lesions .
To confirm the role of lymphangiogenesis in mediating metastasis , the low - metastatic LAPC - 9 tumor cells were engineered to overexpress VEGF - C , and the development of metastases was evaluated .
This review provides basic information for the understanding of the biology of NF - kappaB and aims at presenting experimental data illustrating the involvement of NF - kappaB / Rel in pancreatic cancer .
The migration of vascular endothelial cells ( ECs ) plays an important role in vascular remodeling .
Following i . v . infusion with [ 13C ] alanine , [ 13C ] lactate and glutamate , evidence of oxidation via the TCA cycle , were observed in H4 tumors .
The decreased expression of SEMA3B , SEMA3F , and plexin - A3 was confirmed in stage 3 ovarian tumors .
To evaluate the effect of EPOX on the endothelial signaling pathway , we did immunoblotting , immunoprecipitation , and immunofluorescence analysis .
The body has three equally important interactive immune defense systems , all of which are profoundly disrupted with major burn injury .
These findings indicate that disparate mechanisms of enhancing or inhibiting apoptosis exist in myeloid leukemic cells related to environmental conditions , including HGF - regulated cellular synthesis of distinct proteins and mRNA .
These observations support that the activation of multiple signals could enhance apoptotic response and suggest the therapeutic interest of the TRAIL / camptothecin combination .
Inhibition of energy - producing pathways of HepG2 cells by 3 - bromopyruvate .
Collectively , our results suggest that the loss of SEMA3 expression could be a hallmark of cancer progression .
Notably , the activation of BMPRII by BMP - 2 is required for modulation of Smad activation by NF - kappaB in PC cells .
Semaphorins comprise a family of molecules that influence neuronal growth and guidance .
Cell lines established from such foci elicit tumours in syngeneic animals .
hADA3 functions as a coactivator for p53 - mediated transactivation by stabilizing p53 protein .
In spite of uncertainties regarding the mechanisms of carcinogenesis , several vitamins such as beta - carotene and vitamins A , C , and E , which can reduce the risk of cancer , have been identified , using animal and in vitro models of carcinogenesis .
However , the expression of nm23 - H1 gene product in the metastatic sites have not been studied in detail .
Consequently , mitochondrial integrity is compromised , and the caspase - 9 - dependent cascade is activated in treated tumor cells .
Our current data suggest that gamma rays worked as an initiator of carcinogenesis in normal human cells , giving rise to chromosome aberrations and immortality , and the Ha - ras oncogene played a role in the progression of the immortally transformed cell population to a neoplastic one showing enhanced colony formation in soft agar and tumorigenicity in nude mice .
Glucose and lactate metabolism in C6 glioma cells : evidence for the preferential utilization of lactate for cell oxidative metabolism .
The largely restricted CCL16 expression in the liver suggests that this chemokine may play a role in hepatic vascular formation during development and in angiogenesis associated to hepatic diseases .
This effect was mediated , at least partly , through caspase activation .
The ST3 and BM - 40 / SPARC transcripts were overexpressed in primary colorectal cancers and their liver metastases compared to non - neoplastic mucosa .
Apoptotic signaling by p75 was ligand - independent and only partly caspase - dependent .
In this review , the mechanisms and factors involved in tumor blood vessel formation are discussed .
VEGF immunoreactivity was positive in 75 . 5 % of samples .
Overexpression of c - Ski inhibited TGF - beta signaling in OCUM - 2MLN cells .
CD154 , but not CD40 expression , significantly correlated with tumor stage .
Archival tissues from 40 patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma who received primary surgical resection were examined for HSP27 by immunohistochemistry and correlated with clinical stage , lymph node metastasis , histological grade and survival period .
Thus , our data show that allergic respiratory inflammation may represent a risk factor for the development of lung metastases and suggest that amelioration of the pulmonary inflammation associated with asthma will have a direct and immediate benefit to the 7 % to 8 % of breast cancer patients with this lung disease .
However , as only a fraction of cells in advanced Kaposi ' s sarcoma lesions express vGPCR , it is unclear whether this unique viral oncogene contributes to Kaposi ' s sarcoma progression .
OBJECTIVE : In the present study , we attempted to identify EGFR and TGF - alpha expression and Ki - 67 index in carcinoma ex - pleomorphic adenoma ( Ca ex - PA ) and PA .
The 5 - yr survival rate in patients with the coexpression was poorer than in the other patients .
In combination with TNF or melphalan , L - NAME increased response rates significantly compared to perfusions without L - NAME ( 0 - 64 % and 0 - 63 % respectively ) .
There is considerable debate concerning where in the cell Notch functions and what proteins serve as effectors of the Notch signal .
However , agents such as verteporfin , a second - generation benzoporphyrin derivative , appear to be free from the extensive phototoxicity that limited the success of previous agents .
Instead , regulation occurred at the mRNA level .
In addition , the microtubule - destabilizing agents cause prominent changes in endothelial cell morphology , an action associated with rapid vascular collapse in vivo .
Defective expression of HRK is associated with promoter methylation in primary central nervous system lymphomas .
An evaluation of low molecular weight heparin and hyperbaric oxygen treatment in the prevention of intra - abdominal adhesions and wound healing .
As for adverse events , only pigmentation of the skin and Grade 2 oral aphta were observed .
Control RM - 9 cells and RM - 9 cells stably transfected with IL - 12 gene ( RM - 9 - IL12 ) were inoculated subcutaneously in 4 - to 6 - week - old male C57BL / J6 mice .
UK infusion prior to 5 - fluorouracil increased tissue concentration of antitumor agent .
However , in rap1GAPII - expressing cells , ephrin - B1 did not induce membrane spreading , probably due to instability of the focal complex .
Here , we showed that proapoptotic activity of HDACi was robustly enhanced by E1A in multiple cancer cells , but not in normal cells .
The average IMVD had statistical difference in histological grading ( P less than 0 . 01 ) , and analysis by one to one , the average IMVD had statistical difference between high and median grading .
CONCLUSIONS : Low - dose cyclophosphamide and high - dose celecoxib is well tolerated and active in pretreated aggressive non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma .
BACKGROUND : Mesenchymal stem cells ( MSCs ) transplantation is of therapeutic potential after ischemic injury in both experimental and clinical studies .
Thus TF , in addition to factors downstream of the coagulation cascade and the protease - activated receptor 2 activation system , would be a multifactorial regulator of atherogenesis .
Some homeobox genes , located in four clusters are designated HOX A through D , while others are known as divergent homeobox genes .
