We also demonstrated that Evi - 1 represses Smad - induced transcriptional activation by recruiting CtBP as a corepressor .
Activation of AP - 1 in skin was detected as early as 2 weeks following Cum - OOH or TPA exposure .
The results were comparative to those of Northern blotting of the same cases .
The significance of the associations was determined using Spearman correlation analysis and the chi - square test .
Changes in plasminogen activator inhibitor - 1 levels in non - small cell lung cancer .
A portion of bilateral radial bones of a rabbit were removed as free bone grafts , whose periostea were peeled off .
Ectopic expression of Cdc25a prevented UV - induced S - phase arrest in keratinocytes lacking Erbb2 activity , demonstrating that maintenance of Cdc25a by Erbb2 suppresses cell cycle arrest .
The members of an Epstein - Barr virus microRNA cluster cooperate to transform B lymphocytes .
Moreover , intramuscular p75 ( NTR ) gene delivery impairs neovascularization and blood flow recovery in a mouse model of limb ischemia .
These findings suggest that nm23 - H1 encodes for suppression of colon carcinoma metastasis .
Thymosin beta - 4 ( TB4 ) is an actin - sequestering protein to control cytoskeletal reorganization .
The mechanism of Notch signaling remains poorly understood .
Pharmacological inhibition of autophagic flux by chloroquine increased apoptosis and decreased cell viability in hepatoma cells .
The specific CD47 - activating peptide , 4N1K , similarly induced cell death in human brain microvascular endothelial cells .
In vitro migration and invasion were assessed in these cells , and the NF - kappaB activities and expression of NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules were also examined .
14 - 3 - 3zeta Overexpression and abnormal beta - catenin expression are associated with poor differentiation and progression in stage I non - small cell lung cancer .
We have used a quantitative assay in vitro to demonstrate that mast cells release a factor that significantly increases bovine capillary endothelial cell migration .
Ultraviolet B irradiation promotes tumorigenic and metastatic properties in primary cutaneous melanoma via induction of interleukin 8 .
In contrast , CH - 11 binds to Fas , but is unable to transmit the death signal beyond the plasma membrane suggesting a block at the DISC ( death inducing signaling complex ) .
Inhibitor of differentiation - 1 ( Id - 1 ) is a member of helix - loop - helix ( HLH ) family of proteins that regulate gene transcription through their inhibitory binding to basic - HLH transcription factors .
METHODS : The expression of Merlin protein in 45 cases of NSCLC and adjacent tissue of NSCLC and normal lung tissue was checked by immunohistochemistry .
In the 380 patients who were ITC negative and showed low VEGFR - 1 expression , synchronous ( at the time of surgery ) and heterochronous ( recurrent ) metastases were not observed .
This negative regulation is mediated by the cytoskeleton as the disruption of interactions between the PSMA cytoplasmic tail and the anchor protein filamin A decreases PSMA activity , integrin function , and PAK activation .
Elevated serum soluble VAP - 1 ( sVAP - 1 ) levels occur in certain diseases having an inflammatory component .
We examined these cell lines and samples from breast cancer by RT - PCR for the expressions of OPG and RANKL mRNA .
The sensitivity and specificity of s - VEGF at the cut - off level of 100 pg / ml , as determined by the receiver - operating - characteristics curve , were 80 . 0 % and 72 . 5 % , respectively .
The relative resistance of PC - 3 cells to drug - induced apoptosis was associated with constitutive Akt activation , higher levels of cFLIP - L and Bcl - 2 , and lower levels of Bax .
These effects translated into a 2 . 2 - to 229 . 0 - fold increase in the cytotoxic activity of ara - C against clonogenic leukemic cells after GM - CSF or IL - 3 pretreatment .
The prevailing model for Notch signaling suggests that ligand , presented on a neighboring cell , triggers proteolytic processing of Notch .
Lewis lung carcinoma , with a mechanism unrelated to cytotoxicity for tumor cells .
Hyperbaric oxygenation ( HBO ) may be a useful adjuvant to wound care .
All were assessed by a complete ophthalmological examination , including assessment of the best corrected visual acuity ( BCVA ) using an ETDRS chart , fluorescein and indocyanine angiography and optical coherence tomography ( OCT ) .
It is well established that tobacco smoke is a tumor initiator , but we asked whether it also acts as a tumor promoter once malignant initiation , such as caused by K - ras activation , has taken place .
Betulin induces mitochondrial cytochrome c release associated apoptosis in human cancer cells .
In addition , comparison of both groups revealed a significantly higher increase in TGF - beta1 , IGF - I , IGFBP - 3 , and hGH in the lengthening group during the distraction period , indicating key regulatory functions in mechanotransduction .
Six of the 8 patients whose disease progressed have died .
We demonstrate that a decrease in the amount of circulating ANG II by the angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitor enalapril or the AT1 receptor antagonist losartan induced a stimulation of in vivo angiogenesis implying an inhibitory function of ANG II through the AT1 receptor .
Consistent with the in vitro data , GSE treatment of tumor - bearing mice led to concomitant reduction of blood vessel density and phosphorylation of mitogen - activated protein kinase .
Based on ChIP analysis , the transcriptional regulation of BMP - 2 gene by NF - kappaB may be partially attributed to binding to kappab site on the BMP - 2 promoter .
Verteporfin has a high affinity for choroidal neovascular membranes , typically found with exudative AMD , and upon photoactivation results in targeted microvascular damage and thrombus formation with resultant vessel occlusion .
Eight founder and progeny mice of 5 different lines were monitored for leukemogenesis .
Since both cell lines remained non - tumorigenic in nude mice , these properties indicate that they attained a premalignant phenotype .
The chromosomal translocation t ( 11 : 14 ) is associated with human lymphoid neoplasia affecting centrocytic B - cells of intermediate differentiation .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : Porous PLGA microspheres having primary amine groups on the surface were prepared using an oil - in - water ( O / W ) single emulsion method using Pluronic F - 127 as an extractable porogen .
A role for NF - kappaB in cancer cells appears to involve regulation of cell proliferation , control of apoptosis , promotion of angiogenesis , and stimulation of invasion / metastasis .
Consequently , we examined by immunohistochemistry , using the avidin - biotin - peroxidase method , Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 expression in 56 samples of primary oral squamous cell carcinoma and in 22 matched pairs of primary and metastatic tumors .
In the present study this region is shown to contain a gene encoding a protein of 40 kilodaltons in HTLV - I and 37 kilodaltons in HTLV - II .
Furthermore melanoma cells transfected with a uPA variant , which had an impaired interaction with PAI - 1 , were not invasive and had impaired binding to vitronectin .
Several possible explanations for the relationship of these changes to the enhancement of DMBA carcinogenesis include : radiation blocking normal capillary proliferative and / or dilatory responses to inflammation secondary to neoplastic changes ; radiation - induced focal increases in the pericapillary connective tissue histohematic barrier , stimulating angiogenesis but reducing nutrient diffusion ; radiation exposures sensitizing vascular endothelium to subsequent angiogenic stimulation from premalignant tissues ; DMBA vascular and epithelial effects partially or completely blocking radiation effects on epithelial and / or endothelial cells ; and radiation damage to vessel walls partially or fully inhibiting normal physiologic mechanisms of repairing DMBA damage to the vessels .
Blocking the activation of p44 / 42 mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) by the specific mitogen - induced extracellular kinase ( MEK ) inhibitor , U0126 , impaired modestly the ability of FVIIa to promote cell survival .
A feasibility study was carried out to develop the Ahn / Mustoe lapine wound model for systematic investigation of the effects of electrical stimulation on ischemic wound therapy .
Moreover , we demonstrate that this inflammation - driven netrin - 1 up - regulation is causal for colorectal cancer development as interference with netrin - 1 autocrine loop in a mouse model for ulcerative colitis - associated colorectal cancer , while showing no effect on inflammation , inhibits colorectal cancer progression .
Ovarian cancer is a highly metastatic disease .
Levels of RNA for tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases ( TIMP - 1 , TIMP - 2 ) were relatively constant , suggesting independent regulation of type IV collagenases and their inhibitors .
Increasing evidence suggests that elevated expression of ErbB - 3 is important for malignancy .
It was correlated with the laboratory ( Hb , WBC and platelet counts , and the percentage of blasts ) and clinical parameters ( organomegaly , duration of CP , AP , and BC ) of disease progression .
Fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 - positive fibroblasts provide a suitable microenvironment for tumor development and progression in esophageal carcinoma .
BACKGROUND : The MDM2 oncoprotein promotes p53 degradation via ubiquitin , establishing negative feedback control of p53 and consequently affecting cell cycle arrest and apoptosis .
Effects of repeated low - level X radiation on functional microvascular changes in hamster cheek pouch epithelium during and following carcinogenesis by 7 , 12 - dimethylbenz [ a ] anthracene ( DMBA ) were studied .
In addition , densities of the newly formed bones at 16th week were studied .
OBJECTIVE : Dependence on glycolysis is a hallmark of malignant tumors .
RESULTS : The expression rates of Merlin protein in NSCLC and normal lung tissue sections were 73 . 33 % and 15 . 56 % , respectively ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Basic fibroblast growth factor : a missing link between collagen VII , increased collagenase , and squamous cell carcinoma in recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa .
Angiogenesis - a novel therapeutic approach for ischemic heart disease .
These observations support the importance of ER in Ras - mediated cell transformation .
Cervical cancer develops from well - defined precursor lesions referred to as either cervical intraepithelial neoplasia or squamous intraepithelial lesions .
Close surveillance for arterial and venous thrombotic events is recommended .
Thus , UV - induced Erbb2 activation increases skin tumorigenesis through inhibitory phosphorylation of Chk1 , Cdc25a maintenance , and suppression of S - phase arrest via a PI3K / Akt - dependent mechanism .
Angiogenesis is essential for tumor growth and metastasis .
METHODS : Primary lung cancers ( n = 269 ) and non neoplastic lung tissue ( n = 35 ) were tested for LDH5 expression by immunohistochemistry using a polyclonal LDH5 antibody ( ab53010 ) .
MMTV - cre - mediated inactivation of fur without over - expression of PLAG1 caused smaller but histologically normal salivary glands .
These chemicals differ from the direct - acting mutagens tested previously .
In conclusion , sorafenib administration induced autophagosome formation and enhanced autophagic activity , which conferred a survival advantage to hepatoma cells .
Activation of vascular endothelial growth factor through reactive oxygen species mediates 20 - hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid - induced endothelial cell proliferation .
Mechanisms of pericyte recruitment in tumour angiogenesis : a new role for metalloproteinases .
These results highlight the importance of selenoperoxidase action in the glutathione cycle as a means by which tumor cells cope with hydroperoxide stress .
No significant differences between the two groups were observed in tumor size , gender , age , histology , differentiation or preoperative therapy .
Knockdown of VEGFR - 2 attenuated the sunitinib - induced effects , including apoptosis and inhibition of signaling pathways such as the phosphorylation of Akt as well as mTOR , and Bcl - 2 , which confirmed that these effects could be mediated by VEGFR - 2 .
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the biological features of gastric cancer of the remnant stomach ( RSC ) .
However , current data do not conclusively show evidence of angiogenesis per se in these conditions , despite ( for example ) the presence of high levels of VEGF and Ang - 2 .
METHODS : The effect of insulin on VEGF expression in vivo was examined by in situ hybridization studies of rat retinal VEGF transcripts .
Small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors offer the potential to inhibit more than one kinase and impede tumor growth by multiple mechanisms .
Samples were assayed for glucose , lactate , and insulin concentrations and compared statistically with ten control dogs of similar weight and age undergoing an identical dextrose challenge .
Inactivation of IGF - IR resulted in a loss of endothelial cells , accompanied by dramatic changes in fetal lung explant morphology .
DESIGN : Paraffin - embedded sections of 37 breast carcinomas were immunostained for survivin , bcl - 2 , bcl - x , and bax .
Inhibition studies showed that adhesion of fibroblasts was mediated by several beta1 integrin receptors independent of the RGD and ECD recognition motif .
Both the erbA IRES and the erbA / myb IRES virus constructs transformed erythroid cells after infection of bone marrow or blastoderm cultures .
In breast cancer , biomarkers that specifically correlate with the invasive phenotypes have not been clearly identified .
In juvenile brca2 mutants , oocytes failed to progress through meiosis , leading to female - to - male sex reversal .
Additionally , this sequence shares some homology with the DNA binding domain of GCN4 and c - jun protein .
The ST3 and BM - 40 / SPARC transcripts were overexpressed in primary colorectal cancers and their liver metastases compared to non - neoplastic mucosa .
This identifies a novel function of Evi - 1 as a member of corepressor complexes and suggests that aberrant recruitment of corepressors is one of the mechanisms involved in Evi - 1 - induced leukemogenesis .
Medical therapy to improve symptoms , stabilise the underlying vascular disease and improve lower limb outcomes is an important and effective adjunct to lifestyle modification and surgical or endovascular interventions in patients with IC .
These results suggest that there is cell type specificity for oncogene activation during in vitro rat bladder transformation initiated by a single carcinogen and that ras gene activation is not a necessary step in urothelial transformation in vitro .
In unchallenged endothelial cells , fibrillar collagen induced robust capillary morphogenesis .
RESULTS : HER2 receptor protein was absent in adenomas and in normal gallbladder epithelium .
Notch receptors and ligands ( Jagged and Delta - like ) play a critical role in this process in addition to VEGF .
Interestingly , both constitutively active and kinase - inactive Hck interact with and are targeted for degradation by Cbl .
Thus , pVHL appears to participate in the elimination of misprocessed proteins , such as those arising in the cell due to the unavailability of glucose or to other stresses .
Identification of latency - associated transcripts that map antisense to the ICP4 homolog gene of Marek ' s disease virus .
Proof of principle of the combined diagnosis / treatment system design for performing dye - enhanced photocoagulation ( DEP ) in the clinical setting and determination of the minimum DEP laser energy needed to close CNV FVs was made in 11 AMD patients requiring treatment of CNV , but for whom other treatment was not appropriate .
The tumors of A431 supplemented with F - 2 cells were profoundly vascularized throughout by the tubular structures formed by F - 2 cells , the lumen of which contained the host rat blood cells .
Correspondingly , Ang - 2 manipulatory therapies have been shown to exert protumorigenic as well as antitumorigenic effects .
GDP and AGE receptors : mechanisms of peritoneal damage .
Although anti - VEGF therapies have clearly demonstrated antitumor efficacy in various malignancies , especially when combined with conventional cytotoxic chemotherapy , their mechanism of action is not fully understood .
Multikinase inhibitor sorafenib inhibits proliferation and angiogenesis of tumors by suppressing the Raf / MEK / ERK signaling pathway and VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase .
In CX3CR1 - deficient mice , MCs accumulated subretinally with age and albino background and after laser impact preceding retinal degeneration .
p53 is a protein with many talents .
Neoplastic transformation by Notch requires nuclear localization .
The additional function of Pten as a dual - specificity protein phosphatase may also play a role in glioma pathogenesis .
The integration of vascular grading in clinical trials on adjuvant chemotherapy and / or radiotherapy could substantially contribute in defining groups of operable patients who might benefit from cytotoxic treatment .
Selective inhibition of PI3K / Akt suppressed the NF - kappaB - induced BMP - 2 promoter activity .
Only 3 of the 13 adenocarcinomas metastatic to the serous membranes included in this study were weakly reactive , accounting for 81 % specificity .
We have previously reported that intercellular adhesion molecule - 3 ( ICAM - 3 ) is associated with an increase of cellular radio - resistance and cancer cell proliferation .
Experiments using the tsA 58 allele of the SV 40 - A gene have demonstrated that the SV 40 large T - antigen is strictly required both for immortalization and induction anchorage independence of cells .
The immune response to burn injury is immediate , prolonged , and severe .
Promotion of tumorigenesis by heterozygous disruption of the beclin 1 autophagy gene .
In addition , this study mechanistically implicates IRSp53 in the signaling nexus between activated Cdc42 and Mena , both of which have previously been shown to be involved with Robo4 signaling in endothelial cells .
The characteristics of HPCs in PET described herein for the first time offer additional diagnostic criteria and may help especially to differentiate these tumors from meningiomas .
Thus , DATS may represent a colon cancer preventive agent and can be used in the future .
The authors report on a case series of 13 patients with recurrent heavily pretreated malignant glioma that was treated with the combination of bevacizumab and irinotecan .
To determine if hypoxic activation of these stress activated protein kinases regulated HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression , we assayed JNK1 and p38 activity in squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) lines grown under normoxic or hypoxic conditions .
BMSVTs immortalized with hTERT formed large colonies in vitro and small transient tumours in vivo .
To determine the mechanisms whereby hematopoietic growth factors ( HGFs ) modulate apoptosis in human myeloid leukemic cells , we evaluated the roles of protein and mRNA synthesis for altering apoptosis in growth factor - stimulated vs . quiescent leukemic TF1 cells .
SMI496 , but not a control compound , interfered with angiogenesis in vivo by reversibly inhibiting sprouting from the axial vessels .
METHODS : Using human colon adenocarcinoma tissues ( hereinafter referred to as colon cancer ) and their corresponding non - diseased colon from 114 patients ' biopsies , the expression of SPARC and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) were investigated by immunohistochemistry staining to assessment the relationship between SPARC and VEGF , as well as their prognostic significance in patients .
The biological effect of the perfluorocarbon - based artificial oxygen carrier ( Oxygent ) was investigated in tissue - engineered trachea ( TET ) construction .
Although evidence suggesting a role for FAK in morphogenesis is accumulating , current uncertainties regarding its cytoplasmic location and its molecular interactions in vivo make it difficult to reach definitive conclusions regarding the significance of its contributions to developmental processes .
Up - regulation of lipogenesis by androgen is one of the most characteristic metabolic features of LNCaP prostate cancer cells .
The remaining SVLT mutants presented different degrees of ability to inhibit differentiation ( as shown by the expression of tissue - specific markers in transformants ) .
With K562 cells Glut - 1 appeared as a broad band of 50 - 60 kDa , whereas with U937 and HL60 cells a diffuse band was observed at approximately 55 kDa .
We verified the predicted ELK - 1 - - > tPA transcriptional regulatory relationship using a luciferase reporter assay .
Up - regulation of PFKFB2 expression was mediated by the direct binding of ligand - activated androgen receptor to the PFKFB2 promoter .
KISS1 is a metastasis suppressor gene that is lost in several malignancies , including bladder cancer .
Inhibition of angiogenesis by the cancer chemopreventive agent conjugated linoleic acid .
Rat - 1 cells which had been transformed with the activated Ha - ras - 1 gene from human EJ bladder carcinoma cells were fused with diploid embryonic rat fibroblasts .
Histological evaluation included amount of fibrous and fat encapsulation , connective tissue , foreign - body reaction , neovascularization , hemorrhage , necrosis , and exudate .
It was recently reported for its anticancer effect on several types of cancer cells in vitro however , the molecular mechanisms of this anticancer effect are not fully understood .
Activation of PKA ( cAMP - dependent protein kinase ) by androgen increased phosphorylation of CREB [ CRE ( cAMP - response element ) - binding protein ] , which in turn bound to CRE on the promoter of the HK2 gene resulting in transcriptional activation of the HK2 gene .
These findings are potentially clinically relevant , because HMGA2 expression is reported to be upregulated in a number of human cancers as telomere maintenance is essential for tumorigenesis .
By contrast , none of eight neoplastic lesions ( two adenoma and six adenocarcinoma ) of CBE stained for opticin .
Tumor growth was determined and survival was recorded .
Promotion of inflammation was also involved because lower TSP - 1 was able to up - regulate the adhesion molecules intercellular adhesion molecule - 1 and vascular cell adhesion molecule - 1 .
In contrast , tube formation was significantly reduced by SMI496 , a beta1 I - like domain inhibitor and by function - blocking anti - alpha2beta1 but not - alpha1beta1 antibodies .
Moreover , in vitro experiments demonstrated a direct effect of ethanol on the response to hypoxia in endothelial cells , as ethanol diminished nuclear hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha protein levels .
Surprisingly , analysis of K5CDK4 and K5CDK2 transgenic mouse embryos showed CDK4 and CDK2 expression not only in the expected tissues , but also in the adenohypophysis .
Clinical implication of expression of cyclooxygenase - 2 and peroxisome proliferator activated - receptor gamma in epithelial ovarian tumours .
Overexpression of SEMA3B and SEMA3F reduced focal adhesion kinase phosphorylation and matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and matrix metalloproteinase - 9 expression in ovarian cancer cells .
Loss of expression was frequent in both EOGC and conventional gastric cancers .
Thrombospondin ( TSP ) - 1 , a potent angiogenesis inhibitor , has been shown to exert different biological functions on various cell types .
Regulation of the resident chromosomal copy of c - myc by c - Myb is involved in myeloid leukemogenesis .
Hypoxic induction of HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma lines is mediated by stress activated protein kinases .
Our data showed that under hypoxia the secreted sTie2 selectively inhibited tube formation and migration capacities of endothelial cells in vitro .
Phosphorylation of BimL by Pak1 prevents it from interacting with and inactivation of Bcl - 2 , an antiapoptotic protein .
The expression of 14 - 3 - 3zeta was upregulated in stage I NSCLC .
Both groups received either 0 . 5 mg / ml linomide in drinking water or acidified water and were followed until tumor diameter reached 3 cm or for 4 weeks .
Moreover , renal carcinoma cell lines also released the soluble form of CD154 into the supernatant .
Antibodies to PA - 1 dose - dependently , and significantly , inhibited the invasive and migratory potential of human HT1080 fibrosarcoma cells , as did an antibody to uPA and the plasmin inhibitor aprotinin .
We used neutralizing Abs to show that the IFN - inducible protein - 10 and monokine - induced by IFN - gamma chemokines are pivotal in inducing these effects .
CONCLUSIONS : Our promising results on the potential antitumor effects of hPNAS - 4 on ovarian cancer in vitro and in vivo may be explained , in part , by the induction of apoptosis and inhibition of angiogenesis .
METHODS : Bovine aortic endothelial cells ( ECs ) were cultured .
T140 analogs are peptidic CXCR4 antagonists composed of 14 amino acid residues that were previously developed as anti - HIV agents having inhibitory activity against HIV - entry through its co - receptor , CXCR4 .
Angiogenesis has become an attractive target for drug therapy because of its key role in tumor growth .
From the above , we concluded that carcinostatic agents may increase the metastatic ability of cancer cells in patients with cancer .
N - methyl - N - nitrosourea - induced transformation of rat urothelial cells in vitro is not mediated by activation of ras oncogenes .
The studies reported here were designed to help elucidate PAI - 1 ' s contribution to the invasive and migratory phenotype .
In oral keratinocytes BAG - 1L , but not BAG - 1M and BAG - 1S , enhanced VDR transactivation in response to 1alpha , 25 - dihydroxyvitamin D3 .
Angiogenesis inhibitors : current strategies and future prospects .
The role of syndecans in disease and wound healing .
It is possible that the suppressive effect of GA on MMP - 2 / 9 might involve the inhibition of NF - kappaB activity .
This effect was mediated , at least partly , through caspase activation .
Upon initiation of angiogenesis with basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) on the chick chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) , endothelial cell mitogen - activated protein ( MAP ) kinase ( ERK ) activity was detected as early as 5 min yet was sustained for at least 20 h .
Protein kinase activities in immune complexes of simian virus 40 large T - antigen and transformation - associated cellular p53 protein .
The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of tricyclic antidepressant desipramine ( DMI ) on the growth inhibition and translocation of the glucocorticoid receptor ( GR ) from the cytoplasm to the nucleus in cancerous and noncancerous cell lines and the effect of DMI on GR - mediated transcription .
KISS1 and matrix metalloproteinase - 9 ( MMP - 9 ) may play important roles as metastasis suppressor and metastasis promoter genes , respectively , in a variety of malignancies .
Hypermethylation of final sigma is functionally important , because treatment of final sigma - non - expressing breast cancer cell lines with the drug 5 - aza - 2 ' - deoxycytidine resulted in demethylation of the gene and synthesis of final sigma mRNA .
Both cell types were found to express Trp1 , but neither expressed Trp3 nor Trp6 .
PTTG induced S100A4 and galectin - 1 mRNA and protein expression as assessed by Western blot and reverse transcription - PCR .
However , how the tumor suppressive functions of p53 become concerted with the extracellular cues arriving at the cell surface during tissue homeostasis , remains largely unknown .
We also examined cell proliferation , migration , and anti - apoptotic activity in response to stromal cell - derived factor ( SDF ) - 1alpha and evaluated SDF - 1alpha / CXCR4 signaling pathways .
To test this we generated Nestin - Bmi - 1 - GFP transgenic mice .
We found that orally administered artemisinin inhibited lymph node and lung metastasis and prolonged survival without retarding tumor growth .
We have , therefore , measured the mRNA level of VEGF - B and VEGF - C together with their receptors by RNase protection assay ( RPA ) in 26 normal kidney samples and 45 renal cell cancers .
Elevated c - src expression with angiotensin system inhibition may act to enhance intimal wound closure and to reduce luminal thrombogenicity in vivo .
BMECs transfected with hTERT alone were functionally and phenotypically normal .
Predictive markers for anti - VEGF agents have not yet been identified and questions regarding the usefulness of bevacizumab in the adjuvant setting as well as its continued use beyond progression remain unanswered , in spite of negative data on bevacizumab in treating patients with adjuvant colon cancer .
These results indicated that Crk plays a critical role in Rac1 - induced membrane ruffling and Rap1 - mediated nascent focal complex stabilization contributing to ephrin - B1 - induced human aortic endothelial cells migration .
The pentapeptide SFLLR , like thrombin , caused a marked stimulation of angiogenesis in the CAM .
CONCLUSIONS : The combination of bevacizumab and irinotecan is safe and has excellent activity even in this relapsed , heavily pretreated population of patients with high - grade malignant glioma , most of whom would not be candidates for clinical trials .
METHODS : Preoperative plasma fibrinogen levels were retrospectively examined in 405 patients who underwent surgery for advanced gastric cancer .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : In this study all of the major members of the matrix metalloproteinase ( MMP - 1 , MMP - 2 , MMP - 3 , MMP - 7 , MMP - 9 , MMP - 13 , MT1 - MMP and MT2 - MMP ) / tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase ( TIMP - 1 , TIMP - 2 , and TIMP - 3 ) system have been investigated by immunohistochemistry in a series ( n = 90 ) of stage III ( Dukes ' C ) colorectal cancers .
The data indicate that endosialin is strongly expressed by pericytes during periods of active angiogenesis during embryonic and tumor development .
To further elucidate the biological significance of WT1 in leukemic cell growth , we overexpressed exogenous WT1 in murine M1 myeloblastic leukemia cells using the isopropyl - beta - D - thiogalactoside ( IPTG ) - controlled expression system .
Therefore , we used a targeted mutant mouse model to test the hypothesis that monoallelic deletion of beclin 1 promotes tumorigenesis .
Thrombospondin - 2 plays a protective role in multistep carcinogenesis : a novel host anti - tumor defense mechanism .
Perlecan was also found to stimulate endothelial cell proliferation in vitro over a period of 6 days in the presence of plasma proteins and fibroblastic growth factor 2 ( FGF - 2 ) , however in the absence of FGF - 2 endothelial cell growth could not be maintained during this period .
All wounds were fully re - epithelialized by 10 days post - injury .
Prolonged culture led to the implantation of cancer cells into the monolayer of the F - 2 cells , which was mediated mainly by alpha ( 3 ) beta ( 1 ) - integrin .
An exception is the adaptive immune system where lymphocytes utilize programmed DNA damage to effect antigen receptor diversification .
Six patients ( 46 % ) had a clinical response .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : Human neuroblastoma cells and human Chang hepatocytes are grown in a noncontact , coculture system .
Prostaglandin E2 production was measured by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay .
18F - FDG and 123I - IMT uptake was quantified as ratios between the uptake by the tumour and contralateral regions of reference .
SWAP - 70 is a phosphatidylinositol trisphosphate ( PtdIns ( 3 , 4 , 5 ) P ( 3 ) ) binding protein , which acts in F - actin rearrangement .
Forty - seven specimens resected from patients with stage II and III squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) of the esophagus were studied using immunohistochemical staining .
This down - regulation is accompanied by a rapid cleavage of Tie1 and binding of the cleaved Tie1 45 kDa endodomain to Tie2 .
Patients were followed up until bone metastases were established .
RESULTS : MMP - 9 was expressed in both cell lines but the intensity of the staining was different .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , an endothelial cell - specific mitogen , can act in tumor - induced angiogenesis by binding to specific receptors on the surface of endothelial cells .
Rhizochalin is a two - headed sphingolipid - like compound isolated from the sponge Rhizochalina incrustata .
These results suggest that p24delta1 and possibly other p24 family proteins are required for normal insulin biosynthesis and subsequent secretion in pancreatic beta - cells .
However many human carcinomas overexpress TGFbeta1 and this is associated with poor patient prognosis and increased frequency of metastasis .
Interestingly , the expression of IL - 17A from CD4 T cells in the lamina propria remains unchanged in the absence of IL - 17F .
LMP1 of Epstein - Barr virus induces proliferation of primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts and cooperatively transforms the cells with a p16 - insensitive CDK4 oncogene .
GM - CSF or IL - 2 vaccines or gammaIFN decreased tumor nodules significantly ( GM - CSF 13 + / - 4 , IL - 2 14 + / - 6 vs . control 75 + / - 24 , P < 0 . 001 ) .
A characteristic of malignant cells is their capacity to invade their surrounding and to metastasize to distant organs .
The authors detected both nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 mRNA levels in 47 tissues samples of patients with carcinoma of buccal mucosa ( CBM ) by quantitative reverse transcription PCR amplification .
Immunohistochemical analysis revealed Fas - positive cells and apoptotic cells preferentially within the proximal colon region , clearly at the site of bovine lactoferrin - mediated tumor inhibition .
Finally , dominant - negative inhibition of Mitf resulted in profound resistance of melanocytes and melanoma cells to HGF - dependent matrix invasion , suggesting a physiologic role for this pathway in melanocytic development and melanoma .
The foreign body reaction was similar in both groups .
In order to elucidate a mechanism for cancer - induced osteoclastogenesis , cells from a human breast cancer line , MDA - MB - 231 , were directly co - cultured with ST2 , MC3T3 - E1 , or with primary mouse calvarial cells .
CONCLUSIONS : ITCs circulate even in early stages of disease .
Tumour angiogenesis : its mechanism and therapeutic implications in malignant gliomas .
The onset of their differentiation was ascertained by the deposition of marker pteridine pigments .
In vitro studies using monolayer cultures of human tumor cell lines have shown that 2 - DG selectively inhibits energy - dependent DNA repair and cellular recovery processes in cancer cells .
PURPOSE : The poor prognosis associated with lung cancer is related to the high incidence of regional and distant metastasis .
Furthermore , in comparison with native OPN , thrombin - cleaved OPN stimulated a greater rate of EC migration in vitro , which was additive to the increased migration associated with induction of alpha v beta 3 .
These biologic insights are important arguments to advocate the use of low - dose radiotherapy as an effective palliative treatment for follicular lymphoma .
However , these cells can be sensitized to 8 - aminoadenosine under glucose - limiting conditions .
Western blot analysis demonstrated a > 2 . 5 - fold increase in Fas protein expression , as well as elevation of the active forms of both caspase - 8 and caspase - 3 .
The aim of the present study was to investigate the frequency of the less common p . Val600Lys ( V600K ) mutation in metastatic melanoma from a high incidence region .
In this study , we retrospectively analyzed the coagulation function in patients with pancreatic carcinoma .
Since the prognosis of locally advanced and metastatic diseases is poor , increased understanding of the pathogenesis of NPC would be important for discovering novel markers for patients ' management .
In patients who transform to overt MDS or AML , hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is the only chance for cure .
The purpose of this study was to immunohistochemically investigate the correlation between the desmoplastic reaction and the clinicopathology of invasive breast cancer .
In many diseases state body loses control over angiogenesis .
Since the vessels of normal non - neoplastic human tissues , e . g . of intestine or lymphatic organs , have few somatostatin receptors , the increased somatostatin receptor expression in peritumoral vessels observed in this study may be linked to the neoplastic process itself .
Cancer neoangiogenesis is often disordered and abnormal , with evidence of coexisting vascular endothelial dysfunction .
The treatment possibilities for ischemia - related vascular disease are limited .
H4IIEC3 ( H4 ) , a differentiated rat hepatoma line and H5 , its dedifferentiated subclone , were investigated as proliferating spheroids and as implanted subcutaneous tumors in juvenile rats .
These findings indicate that TS and CD82 may be of great value in assessing lymph node metastasis of OSCC , and could be taken as new targets for therapy of metastatic OSCC .
Recombinants that lacked miR - BHRF1 - 2 or miR - BHRF1 - 3 displayed enhanced EBNA expression initiated at the Cp and Wp promoters .
Among 18 BCR - ABL + leukemias presenting acquired trisomy of chromosome 21 , we report a high frequency ( 33 % ) of recurrent point mutations ( 4 in myeloid blast crisis [ BC ] CML and one in chronic phase CML ) within the DNA - binding region of RUNX1 .
The in vivo role of 9E3 / CEF4 may be involved with chemotaxis and metastasis , rather than with direct stimulation of mitogenicity .
However , the expression of nm23 - H1 gene product in the metastatic sites have not been studied in detail .
The effects on endothelial cells occur in vitro at low drug concentrations , which do not affect microtubule gross morphology , do not cause microtubule bundling or microtubule loss and do not induce cell cycle arrest , apoptosis , or cell death .
Management of early and advanced colorectal cancer : therapeutic issues .
s - VEGF in peripheral blood samples was analyzed in 40 RCC patients and 40 patients without cancer ( controls ) using a sandwich enzyme - linked immunoassay .
A high TP expression at tumor sites is correlated with tumor growth , induction of angiogenesis , and metastasis .
Our experimental data confirm previous studies showing the in vitro cell growth inhibition of the transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder cell line HTB9 and further showed the induction of cell cycle arrest at the S / G2 - M checkpoints .
Taken together , the lines of evidence demonstrate that betulin triggers apoptosis of human cancer cells through the intrinsic apoptotic pathway .
Spironolactone affected both systemic ( down - regulation of CD25 + cells in spleen ) and local immune response ( up - regulation of IL - 10 in cornea ) .
This model highlighted the role of VEGF in angiogenesis in both SAT and VAT .
In vitro assays have indicated that c - myc may be a target gene of c - Myb ; however , regulation of the resident chromosomal gene has not yet been demonstrated .
What was observed , however , was the multistep acquisition of aberrant cellular genetic changes in marrow cells from patients who transformed , including activating ras oncogene mutations , clonal cytogenetic abnormalities , and G - CSF receptor mutations .
These data also suggest that uPA and PAI - 1 may co - operate in the migratory process by respectively facilitating the attachment to , and subsequent detachment from , vitronectin in the extracellular matrix .
Desensitization of prostaglandin F2 alpha - stimulated inositol phosphate generation in NIH - 3T3 fibroblasts transformed by overexpression of normal c - Ha - ras - 1 , c - Ki - ras - 2 and c - N - ras genes .
We especially focused on the role of Crk adaptor protein in EphB - mediated signaling .
Transformation of BHK hamster fibroblasts by an env - strain of Rous sarcoma virus ( RSV ) leads to the appearance at the cell surface of a virus - induced nonvirion antigen ( VCSA ) , specific for transformation , whose expression is controlled by the transforming src gene .
Yet , the net outcome of Ang - 2 functions on tumor angiogenesis is believed to be contextual depending on the local cytokine milieu .
Arteriogenesis : the development and growth of collateral arteries .
Expanded polytetrafluoroethylene ( PTFE ) sheets were implanted adjacent to both superficial epigastric vascular pedicles of 63 rats distributed into 7 groups ( n = 7 ) that differed with respect to dose and timing of irradiation .
CONCLUSIONS : Neuroblastoma cells grown in coculture conditioned media show increased expression of Bcl - 2 and decreased Fas ligand levels .
L - Carnitine ameliorates methotrexate - induced oxidative organ injury and inhibits leukocyte death .
Adipose tissue layered on CAM stimulated angiogenesis .
Nerve growth factor ( NGF ) has been demonstrated to support survival and differentiation of neuroblastoma ( NB ) cells by activation of the TrkA receptor .
Patients with other genetic blistering disorders do not have elevated collagenase or an increased risk of squamous cell carcinoma , despite chronic wounding .
RESULTS : Serum nitrite levels were significantly lower in L - NIL groups ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
These findings provide the first evidence that the AT2 receptor mediates a stimulation of in vivo angiogenesis and indicate that ANG II is a humoral regulator of peripheral angiogenesis involving two receptor subtypes with opposing actions .
Additionally , glutathione depletion and extracellular signal - regulated kinase ( ERK ) inactivation was observed in EPOX - treated cells .
The anti - apoptotic protein c - FLIP ( cellular Flice - like inhibitory protein ) , which has been shown to inhibit Fas - mediated apoptosis at the DISC , was down - regulated following AdGFPFasL ( TET ) treatment prompting us to investigate its role in inhibiting CH - 11 - induced cell death .
These data provide evidence that adenosine could modulate the migration of colon cancer cells by an HIF - 1alpha / VEGF / IL - 8 - dependent mechanism and that caffeine has the potential to inhibit colon cancer cell growth .
We have described striking increases in VEGF protein in both neurons and glia after pilocarpine - induced status epilepticus in the brain .
Cancer cells are different from normal cells in their metabolic properties .
The ectodomains and heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycan chains of syndecans can also act as receptors / co - receptors for some bacterial and viral pathogens , mediating infection .
Constitutively active RhoA ( FRTL - 5 - RhoA QL cells ) exhibited a fibroblast - like phenotype with organized actin fibers , whereas cells expressing the RhoA negative dominant phenotype ( FRTL - 5 - RhoA N19 cells ) present a rounded morphology and lose normal cytoskeletal architecture .
Abnormal expression of E - cadherin and beta - catenin may be a molecular marker of submucosal invasion and lymph node metastasis in early gastric cancer .
Following i . v . infusion with [ 13C ] alanine , [ 13C ] lactate and glutamate , evidence of oxidation via the TCA cycle , were observed in H4 tumors .
METHODS : Transplant tumor model was induced by subcutaneous inoculation of 2 x 10 ( 6 ) Lewis lung cancer ( LLC ) cells into the back of C57BL / 6 mice .
These data indicate that dietary folate supplementation at 4x the basal dietary requirement significantly suppresses UC - associated colorectal carcinogenesis in the IL - 2 ( null ) x beta ( 2 ) m ( null ) mice .
Treatment of cultured human endothelial cells with DAPT , a gamma secretase inhibitor , increased cell migration and sprout formation in response to VEGF stimulation with a biphasic dependence on DAPT concentration .
The knockdown of robo4 abrogated the chemotactic response of endothelial cells to serum but enhanced a chemokinetic response to Slit2 , while robo1 knockdown cells do not display chemotactic response to serum or VEGF .
Combined topical fluconazole and corticosteroid treatment for experimental Candida albicans keratomycosis .
BAG - 1L also potentiated transactivation of known vitamin - D - responsive gene promoters , osteocalcin and 24 - hydroxylase , and enhanced VDR - dependent transcription and protein expression of the keratinocyte differentiation marker , involucrin .
BAG - 1 is expressed ubiquitously in human cells as three major isoforms of 50 kDa ( BAG - 1L ) , 46 kDa ( BAG - 1M ) and 36 kDa ( BAG - 1S ) from a single mRNA .
In addition , we define the minimal domain of N1 ( ic ) required to induce transformation and present evidence that transformation of RKE cells by N1 ( ic ) is likely to be through a CBF1 - independent pathway .
In parallel , we assessed several human melanoma biopsy samples and found again that AKT2 was the predominantly activated AKT in these human melanoma biopsies .
Furthermore , the expression levels of NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules , such as fibronectin , beta1 integrin , MMP - 1 , - 2 , - 9 , and - 14 , and VEGF - C , were upregulated in the highly metastatic cells .
In groups 1 & 2 , hindlimb ischemia was induced by ligation of femoral artery and they received L - NIL and saline respectively .
No difference in relapse - free ( p = 0 . 26 ) or overall ( p = 0 . 63 ) survival was observed in patients stratified by angiogenin expression .
In seven diabetic patients with proliferative retinopathy , the most profound finding was a significant decrease of the PEDF level ( mean value : 237 ng / ml ) , whereas VEGF levels were comparable to diabetic patients without proliferation ( mean value : 3153 ; p = 0 . 003 ) .
Changes in endothelial cell shape accompanied SOC activation and were dependent on Ca2 + entry - induced reconfiguration of peripheral ( cortical ) filamentous actin ( F - actin ) .
Overexpression of CYR61 , CTGF , WISP - 1 , and NOV occurred in 48 % ( 32 of 66 ) , 58 % ( 38 of 66 ) , 36 % ( 24 of 66 ) , and 15 % ( 10 of 66 ) of primary gliomas , respectively .
Effects of spironolactone on corneal allograft survival in the rat .
The purpose of this study was to determine the level of agreement between pediatric dentists and endodontists at a pulp therapy symposium conjointly sponsored by the American Association of Endodontists ( AAE ) and the American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry ( AAPD ) on November 2 - 3 , 2007 .
CD40 activation by CD154 may trigger diverse cellular responses , ranging from proliferation and differentiation to growth suppression and cell death , in normal and malignant cells .
Furthermore , induction of MKP - 1 correlated with the inhibition of extracellular signal - regulated kinase ( ERK1 / 2 ) and c - Jun N - terminal kinase ( JNK ) activity , whereas p38 activity was minimally affected .
The ras - encoded proteins are similar to regulatory G - proteins and are candidates for the unknown G - protein that modulates phosphatidylinositol ( PI ) turnover .
RESULTS : Loss of heterozygosity of CDC4 / FBXW7 occurred in 32 % of EOGCs , and correlated with loss of expression in 26 % .
Previously we demonstrated that N1 ( ic ) and N2 ( ic ) could transform E1A immortalized baby rat kidney cells ( RKE ) in vitro .
The identification of Erk1 , 2 as triggered signaling in the lesions may be valuable for the development of effective therapy for this disease .
We thus have identified a novel element of the complex signaling network involved in the control of cell proliferation and differentiation .
Regulation of the Warburg effect in early - passage breast cancer cells .
Role of stromal myofibroblasts in invasive breast cancer : stromal expression of alpha - smooth muscle actin correlates with worse clinical outcome .
Opinions on 3 areas were sought : pulp therapy for cariously involved primary teeth ; indirect pulp treatment ( IPT ) for cariously involved immature permanent teeth ; and innovative treatment options including pulpal revascularization and regeneration .
CONCLUSIONS : Angiostatin and thalidomide inhibit tumor growth , angiogenesis , and induce apoptosis in this xenograft model of cervical cancer .
No other structural changes in serum were observed for cholesterol - based lipoplexes .
Although AID activity is focused at Immunoglobulin ( Ig ) gene loci , it also targets a wide array of non - Ig genes including oncogenes associated with lymphomas .
Separate rats underwent splenocyte and KC harvest for assessment of lymphocyte - and macrophage - mediated tumor cell kill in vitro .
[ An experimental study on angiogenesis of non - vascularized autogenous bone graft with vascular bundle implantation ]
Here we review the recent evidence of a simple genetic mechanism by which tumor suppressor p53 regulates mitochondrial respiration with secondary changes in glycolysis that are reminiscent of the Warburg effect .
The angiogenic action of thrombin has been shown to be mediated by activation of the thrombin receptor .
Modulation of angiogenesis and progelatinase a by thrombin receptor mimetics and antagonists .
These drugs , however , exhibit severe side effects and are expensive .
We discuss cell lineages , proliferation and interactions of endothelial cells , pericytes and smooth muscle cells , and macrophages .
Only a subset of patients is suitable for laser coagulation .
Endothelial cell migration was attenuated by treatment of cells with GM6001 , a non - specific inhibitor of MMPs , or by a selective anti - MMP2 antibody .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the relationship among angiogenesis , spontaneous apoptosis and clinicopathological parameters in laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma ( LSCC ) .
These enzymes and their physiologic inhibitors , the tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases ( TIMPs ) , act in a coordinated manner to form an integrated system .
BACKGROUND : Opticin is a recently discovered glycoprotein present predominantly in the vitreous humour .
Metastasis from lung adenocarcinoma can occur swiftly to multiple organs within months of diagnosis .
To determine how p18 and p27 genetically interact with Men1 , the tumor suppressor gene mutated in familial MEN1 , we characterized p18 - Men1 and p27 - Men1 double mutant mice .
To understand the molecular basis of carcinogenesis from the beginning to the full acquirement of malignancy , factors concerned with carcinogenesis were categorized into three groups : those guarding and stabilizing genomes , those regulating cell proliferation , and those conferring resistance to various micro - environmental stresses .
Interestingly , crossing of cyclin D1 transgenic mice with E mu L - myc transgenics that express their transgene in both B - and T - cells but predominantly develop T - cell tumours leads in double transgenics exclusively to B - cell neoplasia .
RESULTS : About 43 % ( 126 of 292 ) of known deregulated genes in TFs were associated with cell proliferation , extracellular matrix remodeling , and immune response .
Tip30 is a tumor suppressor that can inhibit estrogen receptor - mediated transcription in MECs , but its role in MEC proliferation remains unknown .
In vivo , tumors derived from cell clones expressing high levels of VEGF displayed significantly enhanced angiogenesis and more aggressive growth .
Promoter region hypermethylation was significantly more common ( P < 0 . 008 ) in breast and ovarian cancer ( 6 / 38 tumours methylated ) than in colon cancer ( 0 / 35 tumours methylated ) or in leukaemias ( 0 / 19 samples methylated ) .
Multiple studies are ongoing to determine the clinical benefits of aflibercept in cancer patients .
RASMC proliferation was unaffected by infection with AdCMV . VEGF165 .
RESULTS : PCR and chimeric BMP - 2 and BMP - 4 luciferase assays demonstrate that NF - kappaB confers robust and selective activation of BMP - 2 in p65 overexpressing or rhTNF - alpha - stimulated PC cells .
Silencing of directional migration in roundabout4 knockdown endothelial cells .
These include activated macrophages , sensitized lymphocytes , and adipocytes .
No significant correlation was found between COUP - TFII expression and age at surgery , gender , histopathologic differentiation , vessel invasion , carcinoembryonic antigen ( CEA ) , or nodal involvement .
Many of the circulatory and transport properties of the sheep placenta are similar to those of the human placenta and as such , the pregnant sheep offers an excellent model in which to study the development of IUGR .
Strikingly , Tip30 deletion promotes proliferation of primary MECs and results in rapid immortalization of MECs in vitro relative to wild - type cells .
All had palpable pedal pulses .
In vitro studies , the results indicated that DATS induced morphological changes and induction of apoptosis in CT26 cells .
A novel peptide ligand , A5 - 1 ( VILVLF ) , with high affinity to integrin alpha5beta1 was identified from the hexapeptide libraries with this chip - based screening method on the basis of a competitive inhibition assay .
Synthesis and degradation of the EGF receptor are regulated , in addition , covalent modification by phosphorylation regulates activity of the receptor protein .
Hepatocyte growth factor ( HGF ) / c - Met signaling is thought to be a key pathway in both melanocyte development and melanoma metastasis .
Previously we observed that neural cell adhesion molecule ( NCAM ) deficiency in beta tumor cells facilitates metastasis into distant organs and local lymph nodes .
Pak1 associates with the complex of DLC1 and BimL , a proapoptotic BH3 - only protein , and phosphorylates both proteins .
Ex vivo cultures from invasive tumors or metastases produced cells that were homogeneously E - cadherin - positive and noninvasive in vitro .
The viral insert mapped to chromosome 17p11 . 2 - 12 , and cellular sequences were duplicated at the site of viral integration .
High osteonectin expression was correlated with high lung colonization .
Prognostic value of HLA - DR expression and dendritic cell infiltration in gastric cancer .
When BB - 94 , a matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor , was added to the culture medium of Ras - expressing cells , it caused a cell aggregation phenotype similar to that caused by TEL expression .
OBJECTIVE : To determine the impact of thalidomide and angiostatin on tumor growth , angiogenesis , and apoptosis in a xenograft model of cervical cancer .
Conditional deletion of Smad1 and Smad5 in somatic cells of male and female gonads leads to metastatic tumor development in mice .
We hypothesized that IGF - 1 - transfected smooth muscle cells ( SMCs ) would enhance cell survival and improve engraftment after cell transplantation .
Cobalt chloride , a stimulator of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) stimulated angiogenesis initiation at 10 ( - 9 ) M in fat tissue and the HPVAM , but at 10 ( - 10 ) M blood vessel growth was stimulated only in the fat assay .
BACKGROUND : The coagulation function in patients with pancreatic carcinoma is abnormal and the reason is not very clear .
Topotecan - and gimatecan induced moderate up - regulation of TRAIL - R1 and - R2 which resulted in a different cell response to the combination in androgen - independent cells ( DU - 145 and PC - 3 ) .
New Zealand white rabbits were given limbal inoculations of a heat - killed suspension of herpes simplex virus ( HSV ) in a lysate of human embryonic kidney cells .
hTERT activity is associated with nodal metastases and cellular proliferation .
Thus , Fas could be involved in bovine lactoferrin - mediated inhibition of tumor development .
The neuroblastoma cells have a significant decrease in Fas ligand .
Five patients are still responding to therapy .
PEDF is an important negative regulator of angiogenic activity of aqueous humor .
Serum vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) levels were measured using the enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) kit .
RESULTS : Using ICG - DEP , CNV feeder vessels were closed with single pulse laser energy , delivering as little as 0 . 6 to 1 . 8 J of energy to the fundus , producing no visible change in the fundus .
Chronic inflammation is a common underlying condition for human tumor development , accounting for approximately 20 % of human cancers .
Targets identified in these novel and diverse FH - deficient models represent excellent potential candidates for further mechanistic investigation and therapeutic metabolic manipulation in tumors .
In vivo glucose and alanine kinetics were examined by tracer methodology in a sarcoma - bearing rat model .
p63 , a p53 homologue , is a myoepithelial cell marker in the normal mammary gland but p63 - positive neoplastic cells may be found in up to 11 % of invasive breast carcinomas .
VEGF and p53 expressions were observed in 40 % and 53 % of the tumors , respectively .
In an effort to decipher the mechanism by which HGF up - regulates its receptor , we found that c - Met is a direct transcriptional target of Mitf .
These findings demonstrate a requirement for VEGFR1 + haematopoietic progenitors in the regulation of metastasis , and suggest that expression patterns of fibronectin and VEGFR1 + VLA - 4 + clusters dictate organ - specific tumour spread .
Nevertheless , for both viruses the leukemic blasts retained full factor dependence for growth .
Maternal endothelial dysfunction in preeclampsia is associated with increased soluble fms - like tyrosine kinase - 1 ( sFlt - 1 ) , a circulating antagonist of vascular endothelial growth factor and placental growth factor .
The most common toxicity was skin rash ( 40 % ) ; myelosuppression and gastrointestinal side effects were uncommon .
No correlations were found between the nm23 - H1 gene product expression in lung cancers and the patients survival .
METHODS : The invasion , apoptosis and levels of uPA , MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 were determined by invasion assay , flow cytometry , Western blot and real - time fluorescence quantitative PCR respectively .
Cell type - specific regulation of angiogenic growth factor gene expression and induction of angiogenesis in nonischemic tissue by a constitutively active form of hypoxia - inducible factor 1 .
This remodeling process seems to be mainly flow - mediated .
Up - regulation of fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 ( FGFR2 ) , which showed the most significant change , was detected in all six tested TFs compared with their paired normal fibroblasts .
v - Src morphologically transformed MEFs lacking SWAP - 70 , but growth of the transformed cells in culture was slower than that of cells supplemented with exogenous SWAP - 70 .
Epithelial - mesenchymal transitions ( EMTs ) occur as key steps during embryonic morphogenesis , and are now implicated in the progression of primary tumors towards metastases .
Correlation of lymphatic vessel density and vascular endothelial growth factor with nodal metastasis in papillary thyroid microcarcinoma .
While endostatin is being investigated for its usefulness in treating solid tumors , its significance in hematologic malignancies is unknown .
VEGF165 expressed by a replication - deficient recombinant adenovirus vector induces angiogenesis in vivo .
The 5T4 antigen is a transmembrane glycoprotein with a 310 amino acid extracellular domain and a 44 amino acid cytoplasmic domain .
Little is known about the specificity of angiogenic properties of oral cancer cells and the possible mechanisms .
RESULTS : There was no significant difference in the median PE level between AML / MDS patients and the normal controls .
We show that LRP - 1 deficiency in murine embryonic fibroblasts ( MEFs ) is associated with increased levels of type III collagen and pigment epithelium - derived factor , which accumulate in the substratum surrounding cells .
Enhanced IGF - 1 expression improves smooth muscle cell engraftment after cell transplantation .
Expression of CD154 on renal cell carcinomas and effect on cell proliferation , motility and platelet - activating factor synthesis .
Molecular mechanisms of pituitary tumorigenesis were studied using Polymerase chain reaction - single stranded conformational polymorphism with DNA sequencing to identify potential mutations in the ras protooncogenes and the tumor suppressor gene p53 in invasive pituitary adenomas and carcinomas .
Metronomic chemotherapy ( the frequent , long term , low dose administration of chemotherapeutic drugs ) is a promising therapy because it enhances the anti - endothelial activity of conventional chemotherapeutics , but with lower or no toxic effects compared to maximum tolerated dose administration .
The data presented here demonstrate that transcriptional activation of cyclin D1 can oncogenically transform B - cells in concert with a myc gene .
Similarly , the human INK4B locus encodes the p15 ( INK4B ) tumor suppressor and one alternatively spliced form , termed as p10 .
In a subset of neuroblastomas , a spontaneous neuronal to neuroendocrine differentiation occurs in areas adjacent to necrotic zones .
Examination of checkpoint pathway activation upstream of Cdc25a revealed Erbb2 activation did not alter Ataxia Telangiectasia and Rad3 - related / Ataxia Telangiectasia Mutated activity but increased inhibitory phosphorylation of Chk1 - Ser ( 280 ) .
The apparent mesenchymal to epithelial conversion of the tumor cells mimics the conversion that occurs during embryonic kidney development , suggesting that Met - HGF / SF signaling plays a role in this process as well as in tumors that express both epithelial and mesenchymal markers .
The elimination half - life when administered i . m . was found to be 3 . 0 h in the serum and 4 . 3 h in the cellular fraction of the blood .
The candidate tumour suppressor protein ING4 regulates brain tumour growth and angiogenesis .
Furthermore , we determined the ability of U - 995 to inhibiting tumor cell growth and metastasis .
We have identified several mechanisms by which the angiogenic cytokine vascular permeability factor / vascular endothelial growth factor ( VPF / VEGF ) likely regulates endothelial cells ( EC ) migration .
Our results indicate that HCMV elevates cellular p53 levels on the order of 10 - to 20 - fold in infected fibroblasts .
These experiments demonstrate that direct interactions between breast cancer and stromal or osteoblastic cells induce osteoclastogenesis in vitro through modulating RANKL expression .
After a 48 - hour incubation period , seven groups of animals were treated for 21 days with fluconazole , with group I acting as a control , and groups II to VII receiving adjunct therapy with the corticosteroid prednisolone ( 5 or 10 times daily ; 3 , 9 , or 15 days after infection ) .
Insulin - like growth factor I induces tumor hexokinase RNA expression in cancer cells .
Twenty - one percent of clinically unaffected family members had elevated levels of bFGF , and 13 % of patients with EBS had elevated levels of bFGF .
Intraperitoneal administration of 2G7 resulted in a marked increase in mouse spleen NK cell activity .
In addition , the results of the previously tested transketolase like 1 protein ( TKTL1 ) expression were correlated to LDH5 expression .
E mu - bcl - 2 transgene facilitates spontaneous transformation of early pre - B and immunoglobulin - secreting cells but not T cells .
This work provides a demonstration that a combination of bioinformatics and comparative proteomics can help in finding out potential biomarkers associated with HCC metastasis on the level of pathways .
CONCLUSION : The data suggest that both h - MVD and VEGF immunoreactivity may be useful predictors for the progression of a subset of OSCC associated mostly with betel use .
Scanning electron microscopy of vascular casts was used to investigate three experimental models of neovascularization .
Clinical significance of chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter - transcription factor II expression in human colorectal cancer .
Thalidomide in concentrations from 0 . 1 microM to 10 microM did not change cell proliferation of 72 - h cell cultures .
Similarly to mouse p15 ( INK4B ) , p10 expression is also induced by oncogenic insults and transforming growth factor - beta treatment and acts as a cell cycle inhibitor .
In contrast , therapeutic angiogenesis is based on the concept that coronary collateral development may be stimulated by pharmacological or molecular means and can limit myocardial ischemia .
Clusterin expression level depends on cell proliferation state , and we recently showed that its over - expression inhibited cell cycle progression of SV40 - immortalized human prostate epithelial cells PNT2 and PNT1a .
BALB - / MK - 2 mouse epidermal keratinocytes required epidermal growth factor for proliferation and terminally differentiated in response to high Ca2 + concentration .
Implications for a possible role of tumor cell / host TGF - beta interactions in human breast cancer progression .
The treatment of ovarian cancer cells with luteinizing hormone , follicle - stimulating hormone , and estrogen induced a significant upregulation of SEMA3B , whereas SEMA3F was upregulated only by estrogen .
The interaction of VEGF and its receptors at gene and protein levels in neuroblastoma remains widely unknown .
Although regulation of Id - 1 protein by several mitogenic factors is well - established , little is known about the role of FGF - 2 in the regulation of Id - 1 .
In some cancers , syndecan expression has been shown to regulate tumor cell function ( e . g . proliferation , adhesion , and motility ) and serve as a prognostic marker for tumor progression and patient survival .
A marked coronary angiogenesis is known to occur with chronic bradycardia .
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES : Even though the pathological background contributes to lymph node metastasis , the biological characteristics of tumors have also gained wide attention .
In the present study the effects of the 48 - hour administration of granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor ( GM - CSF ) ( 100 U / mL ) or interleukin - 3 ( IL - 3 ) ( 100 U / mL ) on the proliferative activity of leukemic cells and on the intracellular metabolism and cytotoxic efficacy of a subsequent 12 - hour application of cytosine arabinoside ( ara - C ) at doses of 0 . 1 , 1 . 0 , 10 . 0 , and 100 . 0 mumol / L were evaluated on bone marrow cells from 17 patients with acute myeloid leukemia .
All of the DR alpha DNA sequences detected by a cloned DR alpha cDNA probe are contained in a BglII fragment which varies slightly in size ( 4 . 0 to 4 . 8 kilobases ) from one individual to another .
AngiomiRs - - key regulators of angiogenesis .
Tumorigenic activity of rho genes from Aplysia californica .
Taken together , our findings suggest that ICAM - 3 stimulates cancer cell migration / invasion via ICAM - 3 / Akt / CREB / MMP pathway regardless of p53 and PTEN status , and this reflects the possibility that ICAM - 3 could be considered as a candidate for anti - cancer drug development and as a cancer diagnostic marker .
Applying cell immunohistochemistry and RT - PCR , we further validated two interesting and different proteins , annexin1 and S100A4 .
Furthermore , we showed that glycogen was depleted in a low glucose medium , but conserved under hypoxic conditions .
In this study , we have established stable cell lines overexpressing PLD1 and PLD2 from fibroblast cells .
Instead , a translational regulation is suggested , since syndecan - 1 core protein synthesis was E - cadherin dependent .
Parental NIH 3T3 - derived cells had both 72 kDa and 92 kDa gelatinase activities , and LTA - derived cells had either aberrantly sized approximately 90 kDa activity alone or neither enzyme activity .
Reversal of the malignant phenotype of ovarian cancer A2780 cells through transfection with wild - type PTEN gene .
20 - HETE also increased the phosphorylation of p42 / p44 mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) in EC , whereas an inhibitor of MAPK [ U0126 , 1 , 4 - diamino - 2 , 3 - dicyano - 1 , 4 - bis ( 2 - aminophenylthio ) butadiene ] suppressed the proliferative and the VEGF changes but not the pro - oxidant effects of 20 - HETE .
The VEGF system represents a key mediator of tumor - initiated angiogenesis and the first target of antiangiogenesis agents introduced in clinical practice .
Transfection with TSP - 1 and purified TSP - 1 added to NIH3T3 cells did not alter the protein levels of alpha - SMA and desmin but significantly inhibited matrix metalloprotease - 2 activity .
Cell - matrix adhesion assay showed that the adhesive ability of CNE1 - GL with the matrix ( mean A value : 1 . 2508 + / - 0 . 0711 ) was higher than that of CNE1 cell ( mean A value : 0 . 9519 + / - 0 . 068 ) ( P < 0 . 001 ) .
The activity of the Tie1 promoter is suppressed by shear stress and by tumor necrosis factor alpha .
Insulin concentrations were significantly higher ( P less than 0 . 001 ) at baseline and at the 5 - , 45 - , 60 - , and 90 - minute time periods of the glucose tolerance test in dogs with lymphoma .
These data demonstrate for the first time that hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 is significantly overexpressed in ovarian tumors and suggest LL - 37 may contribute to ovarian tumorigenesis through direct stimulation of tumor cells , initiation of angiogenesis and recruitment of immune cells .
Absent staining of beta - catenin was associated with lymph node metastasis .
TSP interacts with a number of proteases and receptors and in this way inhibits stimulation of angiogenesis .
The results showed that expression levels of both nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 mRNA varied in normal buccal mucosa , leukoplakia , adjacent nontumorous mucosa , submandibular gland , CBM and lymph nodes with or without metastasis .
Integrin alphavbeta3 requirement for sustained mitogen - activated protein kinase activity during angiogenesis .
No tumours were induced within the latent period for tumour production by control cells transfected with NIH3T3 cell DNA ( 40 - 60 days ) .
Bolus incubation was carried out to determine effects of doxorubicin accumulated during the first 3h , whereas continuous incubation allowed further ( continuous ) exposure to doxorubicin .
The expression of Merlin protein was not associated with the pathological type , gender , P - TNM stage , differentiation and lymph node metastasis ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
This was confirmed with chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments of the human c - Met promoter , as well as by the ability of adenovirally expressed Mitf to modulate endogenous c - Met protein levels in melanocytes .
This is the largest study to date evaluating COX - 2 inhibitors as adjunctive therapy in haemophilia and suggests that these agents may be an important adjunctive therapy in the management of haemophilia .
Differentially expressed genes were identified , and a subset was evaluated by quantitative real - time PCR and immunohistochemistry .
Our results indicate that alpha - MSH exerts modulatory effects on the activation of NF - kappa B and AP - 1 , and that it can regulate chemokine secretion in human dermal fibroblasts .
The objective of this article is to explain radiologic patterns of benign and malignant breast lesions ( masses , microcalcifications ) based on histological correlations .
The neural stem cell fate determinant TLX plays a pivotal role in neurogenesis in the adult brain by maintaining neural stem cells .
Because thrombin cleavage of OPN results in substantial enhancement of OPN ' s adhesive properties , and because VPF / VEGF promotes increased microvascular permeability leading to activation of the extrinsic coagulation pathway , we also investigated whether VPF / VEGF facilitates thrombin cleavage of OPN in vivo .
CONCLUSION : Our observations suggest that DCC / netrin - 1 signaling may commit cells to the transition of endometrial gland architecture or function from a proliferating to a secretory phase .
In addition , our in vivo studies indicated that the lenti - BI - 1 - infected cells formed obvious tumours , while no tumours were formed by the control cells after subcutaneously injected into nude mice .
Finally , we identified FGF13 as a new prognostic marker that predicted poorer outcome in patients who were clinically considered free from disease .
The detection of increased abundance of EGF - R or Her - 2 / neu proteins in human tumours can provide additional information on the disease - free survival and overall survival for patients with breast , ovarian , endometrial or cervical cancer .
Another interesting cell type is the endothelial progenitor cell ( EPC ) , whose numbers increase in the presence of vascular damage .
Four weeks after cell transplantation , reverse transcriptase - polymerase chain reaction ( RT - PCR ) and immunohistochemistry for vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , VIII - factor immunohistochemistry for vessel density , TUNEL , caspase - 3 for cardiomyocyte apoptosis , echocardiography and hemodynamic detection for heart function were performed .
This study highlights the advantages of arranging the BHRF1 miRNAs in clusters : it allows the synchronous and synergistic expression of genetic elements that cooperate to transform their target cells .
Taken together , these data strongly support a role for the AP - 2 gene family , in particular , AP - 2gamma , in the control of ErbB - 3 expression .
The frequency of COX - 2 and PPARgamma detection was significantly increased and decreased as lesions progressed to carcinoma , respectively .
VEGF is a potent activator of angiogenesis as it promotes endothelial cell proliferation and new blood vessel formation .
Betulin ( 10 microg / mL ) induces apoptotic cell death , as evidenced by morphological characteristics such as membrane phosphatidylserine translocation , nuclear condensation / fragmentation , and apoptotic body formation .
Substantial studies have demonstrated that PTEN can inhibit cell proliferation , migration and invasion of many cancer cells .
The age and oral habits of patients , as well as the tumor site and size , did not appear to be correlated with h - MVD or VEGF immunoreactivity .
UK infusion prior to 5 - fluorouracil increased tissue concentration of antitumor agent .
The patient received a prescription for 100 mg Ultralan to be taken daily for 3 days and then tapered in 3 day steps .
Artemisinin inhibits tumor lymphangiogenesis by suppression of vascular endothelial growth factor C .
The number of retinal vascular findings was not significantly correlated with serous elevation of the retina .
Nrf2 heterodimerizes with small Maf protein to strongly activate transcription through the Maf recognition element ( MARE ) and Keap1 is an inhibitory regulator of Nrf2 .
When the macro - molecular synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide ( CHX ) or actinomycin D ( Act D ) was present for 26 hours in the absence of GM - CSF and FBS , apoptosis was inhibited .
Significant correlation between the osteoblastic marker BAP , TGF - beta1 , and bFGF suggests strain - activated osteoblastic cells as a major source of systemically increased bone growth factors during callus distraction .
Visual acuities were stable or improved in 86 % ( n = 18 ) .
In combination with TNF or melphalan , L - NAME increased response rates significantly compared to perfusions without L - NAME ( 0 - 64 % and 0 - 63 % respectively ) .
CONCLUSION : c - kit protein is an important diagnostic marker of gastrointestinal stromal tumor .
Chondrocyte - DegraPol constructs were cultured for 1 month with the medium before glycosaminoglycan assessment and histology .
During 8 days of culture under 5 % O ( 2 ) , but not room air , the addition of FGF2 to explants stimulated the formation of Gs - IB ( 4 - ) positive , CD31 - positive , and Flk - 1 - positive microvessels in a concentration - dependent manner .
HTPB delayed lung metastasis of 4T1 mouse breast cancer cells .
Therefore , in the situation without peritoneal involvement , hyperfibrinogenemia is a useful biomarker to predict the possible metastasis and worse clinical outcome in T2 gastric cancer .
Diabetic mice , which typically show impaired postischemic muscular neovascularization and blood perfusion recovery , have these defects corrected by intramuscular gene transfer of a dominant negative mutant form of p75 ( NTR ) .
The genetics of transformation by SV 40 .
p24 family type 1 transmembrane proteins are required for insulin biosynthesis and secretion in pancreatic beta - cells .
Ang - 1 has been shown to induce the migration and sprouting of endothelial cells , and coexpression of Ang - 1 and VEGF enhanced angiogenesis .
Together , we proposed that MOG alone or administered with other anticancer agents may provide a novel therapeutic strategy for leukemia .
Comparison between RNA / DNA sequence of viral oncogenes and normal human genome of non - transformed cells revealed high sequence similarities in specific genomic areas , which were named cellular proto - oncogens .
Gastric cancer tissue samples expressed CXCR4 with variable intensities .
The results of this study show that FOXO3a directs an anti - carcinogenic transcription program that culminates in the elimination of carcinogen - damaged cells .
The polycomb gene Bmi - 1 is required for the self - renewal of stem cells from diverse tissues , including the central nervous system ( CNS ) .
The 20 - HETE agonist markedly increased superoxide formation as reflected by an increase in dihydroethidium staining of EC , and this increase was inhibited by PEG - SOD but not by apocynin .
Using tamoxifen and doxorubicin - sensitive and - resistant breast cancer cell lines as models , we found that doxorubicin - but not tamoxifen - resistance is associated with nuclear accumulation of FOXO3a , consistent with the finding that sustained nuclear FOXO3a is associated with poor prognosis .
However , little in vivo experimental data are available about the effects of NF - kappaB inhibition on OSCC metastasis .
Quercetin increased the efficiency of pumping in EAT cells both in the absence and presence of the detergent .
Deletion of Tip30 leads to rapid immortalization of murine mammary epithelial cells and ductal hyperplasia in the mammary gland .
Here we demonstrate that repetitive exposure to tobacco smoke promotes tumor development both in carcinogen - treated mice and in transgenic mice undergoing sporadic K - ras activation in lung epithelial cells .
BACKGROUND : Angiogenesis is essential for tumor growth and relies on the production of angiogenic factors .
From 35 to 100 % of the whole amount of ATP resynthesized via glycolysis is utilized for transport purposes .
Additionally , doxycycline diminishes the proliferation of this breast cancer cell line and also decreases its gelatinolytic activity , as determined by gel zymography .
Our results showed that curcumin dose - dependently inhibited ( P < 0 . 05 ) the proliferation of MCF - 7 cells .
Molecular analyses of tumors in beclin 1 heterozygous mice show that the remaining wild - type allele is neither mutated nor silenced .
The angiogenic switch occurred in early stages of pre - malignant tumor formation , and tumor angiogenesis was significantly enhanced in TSP - 2 - deficient mice .
Thus , nicked beta2GPI exerts dual effects on angiogenesis , that is , nicked beta2GPI promotes angiogenesis in the presence of AS4 . 5 , whereas nicked beta2GPI inhibits angiogenesis at concentrations high enough to neutralize AS4 . 5 .
Furthermore , retention of CDK4 in these TA - like pituitary cells synergizes with loss of p27 ( Kip1 ) to induce pituitary adenocarcinomas .
Hypermethylation and loss of final sigma expression are the most consistent molecular alterations in breast cancer identified so far .
This demonstrates that RPE tumor cells metastasize to lymph node and spleen .
Although the increase in p53 levels could be a secondary by - product of the transformed state , it is equally possible that p53 is actively involved in altering cellular growth properties , especially as it has been implicated in the regulation of normal cell proliferation .
The aim of this study is to compare behavior and tissue response between two new polyester prostheses and a commonly used polypropylene ( PP ) mesh .
Tumor endothelial cell targeted cyclic RGD - modified heparin derivative : inhibition of angiogenesis and tumor growth .
The region contains a number of small open reading frames on each side and within the MSRs .
Effects of dietary folate on ulcerative colitis - associated colorectal carcinogenesis in the interleukin 2 - and beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin - deficient mice .
Taken together , these results showed that , in addition to the MAPK pathway previously reported being a downstream target of stimulated Grm1 , AKT2 is another downstream target in Grm1 mediated melanocyte transformation .
Grape seed extract inhibits angiogenesis via suppression of the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway .
There is a significant increase in the number of apoptotic hepatocytes when they are cultured in the conditioned media .
One of these mutants ( CU2 ) increases the rate of glucose transport only slightly and does not render the infected cells fully anchorage independent or tumorigenic ( although other transformation parameters are fully induced ) .
Histone deacetylase inhibitors ( HDACi ) are potent anti - cancer agents for variety of cancer types .
A uniform left ventricular injury was produced in female rats using a cryoprobe .
Angiogenin is up - regulated in the nucleus and cytoplasm in human primary breast carcinoma and is associated with markers of hypoxia but not survival .
METHODS : Tumor biopsy specimens and serum were obtained from 37 neuroblastoma patients ; adrenal biopsy sections and sera of 7 normal children served as controls .
Dopamine administration leads to increased VEGF - induced phosphorylation of SHP - 2 and this increased phosphorylation parallels the increased phosphatase activity of SHP - 2 .
We conclude that CD47 signaling can negatively affect the viability and function of cerebral endothelial cells , further supporting the notion that CD47 may be a potential neurovascular target for stroke and brain injury .
The indication for surgery was established on the basis of pathologic calcitonin levels in the first seven patients and on the basis of detected RET proto - oncogene mutation in the other eight patients .
Moreover , the lymph nodes close to the salivary glands were enlarged , and histology showed that they had activated follicles .
RNA damage and inhibition of neoplastic endothelial cell growth : effects of human and amphibian ribonucleases .
Many observations in various animal models and humans support that the remodeling of preexisting collateral vessels is the mechanism of collateral artery formation .
Curcumin induces apoptosis in immortalized NIH 3T3 and malignant cancer cell lines .
HKa and D5 inhibit bovine pulmonary artery endothelial cell ( BPAE ) or human umbilical vein endothelial cell chemotaxis in the modified - Boyden chamber in response toVEGF or S1P .
In addition , it significantly extends the passage number of MEF cells to more than 30 after retroviral infection , compared with less than 5 for uninfected MEF cells .
We have previously described a group of genes that is rapidly up - regulated in these cells following dexamethasone ( Dex ) treatment .
VEGF mRNA expression was also observed in Ve - and OMP - stimulated HGF .
We have investigated the expression of osteonectin gene in fresh BALB / c fibroblasts transformed by v - Ki - ras .
These sinusoids had a great deal of surface area for potential contact with the fetal component .
TNF - alpha is also an essential component of the immune system and is required for hematopoiesis , for protection from bacterial infection and for immune cell - mediated cytotoxicity .
BACKGROUND : The anabolic properties of insulin have been suggested for use to reverse malnutrition associated with cancer .
Treatment with anti - Fas for 48 h induced apoptosis with cells exhibiting typical apoptotic features including loss of cell contact , condensation of chromatin , and increased staining of the nuclear membrane .
We failed to find the statistical difference between IMVD and tumor T - stage in LSCC .
BACKGROUND : The fate of patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia of type II A ( MEN II A ) is determined by medullary thyroid carcinoma , which occurs in all cases .
Malignancy in cancer is associated with aerobic glycolysis ( Warburg effect ) evidenced by increased trapping of [ ( 18 ) F ] deoxyglucose ( FdG ) in patients imaged by positron emission tomography ( PET ) .
RESULTS : Fifty - one percent of patients with RDEB had elevated levels ( greater than 5000 pg / g ) of urinary bFGF .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the effect of vascular bundle implantation in autogenous bone graft on angiogenesis .
We found a decrease in corneal neovascularization in spironolactone - treated rats compared with the PBS - treated group , although the difference was not statistically significant .
Tumor microenvironment , a dangerous society leading to cancer metastasis .
A two sided correlation between the expression of TKTL1 and LDH5 could be shown ( p = 0 . 002 ) within the overall cohort as well as for each grading and pN group .
Activation of Notch proto - oncogenes has been associated with tumorigenesis in several human and other mammalian cancers .
Simian virus 40 large T antigen ( SV40 Tag ) was introduced into a normal human first trimester invasive EVT cell line , HTR8 , established in our laboratory .
The induction of aerobic glycolysis is an important component of STAT3 pro - oncogenic activities , since inhibition of STAT3 tyrosine phosphorylation in the tumour cell lines down - regulates glycolysis prior to leading to growth arrest and cell death , both in vitro and in vivo .
Scrutiny of diagnostic indicators for verteporfin administration , including critical angiographic evaluation of lesion size and visual acuity , is essential to treatment success .
M - CSF signals through the MAPK / ERK pathway via Sp1 to induce VEGF production and induces angiogenesis in vivo .
The concept of the neurovascular unit emphasizes that common signals and substrates underlie the physiology and pathophysiology of neuronal and endothelial compartments in brain .
The in vitro expression of FAK and its level of phosphorylation appear to be related to several physiological phenomena , including cell spreading , cell differentiation , cell locomotion and cell death .
This study establishes the potential of metabolic targeting as a broader means to kill and sensitize myeloma and identifies a compound that can achieve this goal .
RESULTS : Twenty - one eyes had juxtafoveal CNV .
Further investigation using inhibition or genetic deletion of Erbb2 in vitro revealed reduced Cdc25a levels and increased S - phase arrest in UV - irradiated cells lacking Erbb2 activity .
The fact that viral or other adjunctive vectors were not required further suggests that secreted gene products may have potential therapeutic utility even when the number of successfully transfected cells remains low .
After 21 days , the serum concentration of nitrite , capillary density and expression of HIF1alpha were determined .
In vitro studies also suggest progesterone may play a role in modulating inflammation .
The data suggest that various metastasis profiles exist .
Protection from experimental ocular herpetic keratitis by a heat - killed virus vaccine .
Pharmacologic agents have been identified that target these pathways , yet for some agents ( notably thalidomide ) , an understanding of the specific mechanisms of antitumor action has proved elusive .
CONCLUSION : IMVD may be an important indicator to predict cervical lymphatic metastasis in LSCC .
The tumors were also serially transplantable into other mice .
Angiogenesis inhibitors have been developed to interrupt the angiogenic process at the growth factor , receptor tyrosine kinase and intracellular kinase levels .
In T - cell ALL with t ( 10 ; 14 ) translocation , the HOX 11 gene is deregulated .
Remarkably , final sigma mRNA was undetectable in 45 of 48 primary breast carcinomas .
The role of the p53 pathway in Runx2 / MYC tumors was explored on a p53 heterozygote background .
RSVT - 2 and RSVT2 / C cell lines were hyperproliferative and hyperinvasive when compared with the parental HTR8 cell line .
Furthermore , the biological activity of FGF - BP is neutralized by monoclonal antibodies suggesting the potential for antibody - based therapeutic targeting .
This compound inhibits cellular ATP production owing to its action on glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation ; however , the specific metabolic steps and mechanisms of 3 - BrPA action in human hepatocellular carcinomas , particularly its effects on mitochondrial energetics , are poorly understood .
miR - 378 , miR - 296 , and the miR - 17 - 92 cluster contribute to tumor angiogenesis .
PTHrP drives breast tumor initiation , progression , and metastasis in mice and is a potential therapy target .
Subcutaneous implantation of bFGF loaded PLGA - heparin microspheres in mice significantly induced the formation of new vascular microvessels .
The selected peptide was tested for the antitumor activity against mildly aggressive xenografted prostate carcinoma and highly aggressive renal cell carcinoma .
Tumors are tissue - specific diseases , and their mechanisms of invasion and metastasis are highly diverse .
Heparin immobilized porous PLGA microspheres for angiogenic growth factor delivery .
Recent studies on factors involved in tumor vascular development have identified new therapeutic targets for inhibiting tumor neovascularization and thus tumor progression .
Hemostatic factors play a crucial role in generating thrombotic plugs at sites of vascular damage ( atherothrombosis ) .
Interactions among growth factors , cells , and extracellular matrix regulate proliferation during normal development and in pathologies such as atherosclerosis .
VEGF165 mediates formation of complexes containing VEGFR - 2 and neuropilin - 1 that enhance VEGF165 - receptor binding .
A perifusion system was designed in order to study glucose and glutamine metabolism by freshly harvested Ehrlich ascites tumour cells in steady state conditions .
The TB animals had significantly lower plasma glucose and higher blood lactic acid levels compared with NTB animals .
Inhibition by retinoic acid of type IV collagenolysis and invasion through reconstituted basement membrane by metastatic rat mammary adenocarcinoma cells .
AVE8062 : a new combretastatin derivative vascular disrupting agent .
Pathological analyses indicate that a significant large population of human ductal cancers may utilize the EGFR - GEP100 - Arf6 - AMAP1 pathway for their malignancy .
The application of molecular technology may play an important role for the differential diagnosis between synchronous primary carcinomas and a single carcinoma with metastasis .
By contrast , ovarian tumors displayed significantly higher levels of hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 where expression was observed in tumor and stromal cells .
Thus , in 5T4 - transfected CL - S1 murine mammary cells , 5T4 expression is associated with dendritic morphology , accompanied by abrogation of actin / cadherin - containing contacts and increased motility .
Colon cancer overexpresses insulin - like growth factor 1 ( IGF1 ) and insulin - like growth factor 1 receptor ( IGF1 - R ) , as compared with normal or adenomatous mucosa , and it has been postulated that colorectal cancer cells depend on the IGF1 / IGF1 - R pathway for their growth and progression .
In this study , to examine hypoxia - specific production of anti - angiogenic therapeutic gene , we constructed 5 copies of HRE ( 5xHRE ) of human VEGF linked to soluble Tie2 ( sTie2 ) driven by minimal SV40 promoter ( 5xHRE / SV40 / sTie2 ) .
RNA and DNA viruses can be transforming and tumourigenic agents .
The paper reviews the data available in the literature on a role of the tumor suppressor ARF in oncogenesis and considers the structure of a gene encoding ARF protein .
This study was aimed to determine the minimal fragment of PEDF , which maintains antiangiogenic and antitumor efficacy .
In a variety of cell types , the glycolipid - anchored urokinase receptor ( uPAR ) is colocalized pericellularly with components of the plasminogen activation system and endocytosis receptors .
Most Group I compounds except doxorubicin ( which induced DNA fragmentation less effectively than others ) activated caspase 3 more efficiently than Group II compounds .
RESULTS : The OSCC samples had an average h - MVD score of 27 . 7 / mm ( 2 ) .
Disturbances in expression of apoptosis - associated proteins take part in the development and progression of many human malignancies .
Y705F / S727E mutant cells were more invasive than Y705F / S727A ( inactivation of Y705 and S727 ) mutant cells , and more Y705F / S727E mutant Stat3 was localized in the nuclei relative to Y705F / S727A mutant Stat3 at the steady state .
RESULTS : Blood vessels initiated growth and elongated from the fat tissue fragments over 15 days .
To examine the roles of LMP1 in cell proliferation and growth regulation in primary culture cells , we constructed a recombinant retrovirus containing an LMP1 gene .
These functions include the first stages of sprouting in angiogenesis , cell migration following wounding , and vascular permeability .
Induction of these genes also occurred in diverticulitis and digestive neoplasms such as gastric and esophageal carcinomas .
In all cases , only inhibition of PKCalpha inhibited each of these functions when compared to the inhibition of PKCbeta .
Glucose and lactate metabolism in C6 glioma cells : evidence for the preferential utilization of lactate for cell oxidative metabolism .
Gene expression signatures denoting WNT / TCF activation are associated with relapse to multiple organs in primary lung adenocarcinoma .
In contrast , at least some of these sites were not methylated in DNA from the B - cells expressing high levels of DR alpha mRNA .
We have previously shown that massive apoptosis occurs when wild - type p53 or E2F - 1 expression is induced in glioma .
Treated animals also displayed a 2 . 4 - fold reduction of tumor vascular endothelial growth factor mRNA levels .
CONCLUSION : Our results show the effectiveness of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS as an angiogenesis inhibitor in suppressing tumor growth during different stages of tumor progression , validating the application of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS gene therapy in treatment against lung cancer .
Tumor angiogenesis might contribute to tumor malignant progression by inhibiting spontaneous apoptosis in LSCC .
BACKGROUND : We suggest that surgical extirpation of primary breast cancer among other effects accelerates relapse for some premenopausal node - positive patients .
Interestingly , in CaSki cells , which were more suggestive of a resistant phenotype , paclitaxel induced the activation of mTOR as a downstream target of Akt .
EPOX inhibits angiogenesis by degradation of Mcl - 1 through ERK inactivation .
Although several hypotheses for human carcinogenesis have been proposed , the specific genetic changes that cause normal cells to become cancer cells have not been identified .
CONCLUSION : These results suggested that cisplatin induced a reduction of endothelial cell migration through an inhibition of MMP2 activity by downstream signal transduction pathways independent of JNK and p38 MAPK activation .
Recent data suggest that activation of the integrin - associated protein CD47 promotes neuronal cell death .
Tumor - specific DNA changes were detected in two additional HCCs , suggesting that the small region of chromosome 17p defined by the flanking cell DNA probe is commonly altered in hepatomas .
Tumor cells express the glycolytic regulator pyruvate kinase subtype M2 ( M2 - PK ) , which can occur in a tetrameric form with high affinity to its substrate phosphoenolpyruvate ( PEP ) and a dimeric form with a low PEP affinity .
However , we need to determine whether it happens in breast cancer .
Inhibition of NO synthase reduces tumour growth both after systemic and regional ( ILP ) treatment .
Collectively , our results provide strong biochemical and genetic evidence of a central role for alpha2beta1 integrin in experimental and developmental angiogenesis .
Reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) produced in the course of cellular oxidative phosphorylation , and by activated phagocytic cells during oxidative bursts , exceed the physiological buffering capacity and result in oxidative stress .
Enhanced expression of PTEN by gene transfer is sufficient to reverse the malignant phenotype of ovarian cancer cells and transfection of ovarian cancer cells with wild - type PTEN gene might be another novel approach for therapeutic intervention in ovarian cancer .
The principal types of tumors were plasmacytomas secreting immunoglobulin and novel lymphomas that expressed markers such as Sca - 1 , CD4 , Thy - 1 , CD34 and CD45 ( B220 ) , consistent with an origin very early in B - lymphoid development .
Baseline and pentagastrin - stimulated calcitonin levels were preoperatively determined in all cases .
Photodynamic therapy ( PDT ) is a novel treatment entity that exploits the photophysical properties of various photosensitive chemical entities which , upon light activation , results in targeted photooxidation and subsequent tissue destruction .
Surprisingly , despite the expression of KSHV latent genes in the vast majority of tumor cells , specifically targeting only the few vGPCR - expressing cells in established tumors resulted in tumor regression .
This model suggests that forced expression of CDK4 sensitizes cells and synergizes with a second change resulting in tumor development .
Mutating tp53 did not rescue the infertility phenotype in brca2 mutant males , suggesting that brca2 plays an essential role in zebrafish spermatogenesis .
The number of lymph node metastases was significantly higher in HEC1A / VEGF - C cells than in HEC1A cells ( 3 . 2 vs 1 . 1 nodes / animal , respectively ) .
Here we show that exponentially growing NIH 3T3 fibroblasts recently transformed by Ha - ras or Ki - ras possess elevated DG concentrations without significant alterations in the levels of other polyphosphoinositide metabolites .
We observed a significantly increased risk of lymph node metastasis associated with the FAS - 1377 GA or AA polymorphism [ odds ratio ( OR ) = 4 . 16 , 95 % confidence interval ( CI ) = 1 . 10 to 15 . 74 ; P = 0 . 036 ] .
Adaptor protein Crk is required for ephrin - B1 - induced membrane ruffling and focal complex assembly of human aortic endothelial cells .
Recently , it has been shown that expression of human HOX 2 genes is sequentially activated by RA beginning from Hox 2 . 9 at the 3 ' end of the HOX 2 cluster ( A . Simeone , D . Acampora , L . Arcioni , P . W . Andrews , E . Boncinelli , and F . Mavilio , Nature [ London ] 346 : 763 - 766 , 1990 ) .
It has been shown previously that the 55 - kDa polypeptide abrogates p53 - mediated transactivation and that mutants defective in p53 binding are unable to cooperate with E1A in transformation .
It was found that wild - type ( wt ) SVLT strongly inhibited the terminal differentiation of mouse C2 myoblasts , but this arrest occurred only after the synthesis of myogenin , an initial step in biochemical differentiation .
Angiostatin was first discovered as a plasminogen fragment with antitumor / antiangiogenic property .
Protein up - regulation of HER2 in the epithelium with metaplasia or carcinoma in situ was not accompanied by HER2 gene amplification .
In addition to altering metastasis , beta - catenin levels control tumor differentiation and regulate both MAPK / Erk and PI3K / Akt signaling .
Research and discovery of the first human cancer virus , HTLV - 1 .
Furthermore , Trib1 by itself is a novel myeloid oncogene , enhancing phosphorylation of ERK , resulting in inhibition of apoptosis .
Endothelial cell proliferation plays a pivotal role in the process of angiogenesis .
Angiogenesis is a critical process in solid tumor growth and metastasis .
The development of this technology has benefited from its application to both peripheral and coronary artery disease and results from both are reviewed here .
PTHrP also influenced expression of the adhesion factor CXCR4 , and coexpression of PTHrP and CXCR4 was crucial for metastatic spread .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : c - erbB2 , evaluated by immunohistochemistry in 145 of 173 patients randomly assigned to 2 - year adjuvant tamoxifen or no further therapy , was considered overexpressed if greater than 10 % of the cells showed specific membrane staining .
Administration of thalidomide at the concentration of 0 . 01 microM increased cell migration , while at 10 microM , it decreased cell migration .
Prior studies showed enhancement of such carcinogenesis by repeated 20 rad head and neck X - radiation exposures , and it was proposed that one possible mechanism was radiogenic alteration of the functional microvasculature in a manner which favored subsequent tumor development .
Cells were treated with curcumin and examined for cell viability by MTT assay .
Since EVT cells possess active invasion - associated genes but are nontumorigenic , our objective was to induce premalignant and then malignant phenotype into a normal EVT cell line in order to identify the molecular basis of tumor progression .
Thyroid transcription factor - 1 ( TTF - 1 ) is expressed in lung adenocarcinomas and thyroid carcinomas but not in adenocarcinomas arising from other sites .
Curcumin also significantly decreased ( P < 0 . 05 ) the expression of uPA and NF - kappaB DNA binding activity , respectively .
The vascular anomalies seem to precede the development of histologic lesions in some instances .
The increased energy expended by the host to synthesize substrate , which is utilized by the tumor , is a potential cause of cancer cachexia .
Survivin partially antagonized the growth suppressive function of N - myc in SH - EP neuroblastoma cells during serum deprivation whereas FLIP ( L ) did not .
Although vascular casts must be interpreted with caution in light of the possibility of incomplete filling and other artifacts , they are a valuable tool in the study of ocular vasoproliferation .
In contrast , in the presence of GM - CSF or FBS , apoptosis was enhanced upon addition of CHX or Act D .
The stimulatory effect of mast cells on migration is specific for capillary endothelial cells .
Oncogenic epidermal growth factor receptor mutants with tandem duplication : gene structure and effects on receptor function .
In the present study we examined the possibility that the revertant phenotype resulted from mutations that altered the expression or activities of the c - jun or junB proto - oncogenes .
The similarity between RhoA effects and thyroid transformation by Ras suggests that RhoA may act as a downstream effector of Ras ; in fact , the dominant negative RhoA N19 abolished the down - regulatory effect of Ras V12 over the Tg promoter .
Thus , ATX appears to augment cellular characteristics necessary for tumor aggressiveness .
The induction occurs within 1 h from FGF - 2 treatment and is mediated by ERK1 / 2 pathway , which in turn stimulates expression of the early growth response - 1 ( Egr - 1 ) transcription factor .
This suggests that expression of DR antigens also can be modulated post - transcriptionally .
Tumors greater than 35 mm3 treated with IR 24 hours previously or with TEMF had decreased blood vessels in the subcortex and more endothelial pseudopods projecting into hypoxic , HIF positive areas than tumors from the control group .
WT1 represses transcription of several growth factors and growth factor receptors .
It has been suggested that the immortalized phenotype is mediated by an extra cellular factor .
The malate - citrate cycle was studied during aerobic glycolysis and glutaminolysis in a strain of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells which showed a very low malate - aspartate shuttle system activity .
They were treated with HBO in 56 + / - 10 consecutive HBO sessions .
We screened 200 RTK target - based compounds and identified one ( TKI - 31 ) that potently inhibited VEGFR - 2 kinase activity ( IC50 = 0 . 596 microM ) .
We conducted a retrospective medical record review of patients treated with rofecoxib for acute haemarthrosis , chronic synovitis , target joint or pain .
Diverse cell signaling events modulated by perlecan .
While accumlating evidence for the function of MTSS1 support the concept that it is unlikely to be a metastasis suppressor , but actually acts as a scaffold protein that interacts with multiple partners to regulate actin dynamics .
cDNA microarray expression analysis showed that the mouse homologue of Dss1 is induced by TPA .
Semaphorins and their cognate receptors , Plexins and neuropilins , are involved in neuronal pathfinding , immune function , and tumor progression through effects on blood vessel growth and cell migration .
However , in Apc mutation - induced intestinal tumors , inactivation of Hes1 alone was sufficient for reducing tumor cell proliferation and inducing differentiation of tumor cells into all types of intestinal epithelial cells , but without affecting the homeostasis of normal crypts owing to genetic redundancy .
RESULTS : The mean Rentrop collateral score was higher in Group 1 than in Group 2 ( 2 . 39 + / - 1 . 07 vs . 1 . 76 + / - 0 . 76 , respectively , p less than 0 . 001 ) .
Anti - Fas treatment resulted in decreased p53 protein levels , while bcl - 2 and bax protein levels remained unaffected .
Both cell lines showed reduced expression of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteases ( TIMP ) - 1 , while TIMP - 2 and plasminogen activator inhibitor ( PAI ) - I expression was was also reduced in RSVT2 / C cells , thus contributing to their hyperinvasiveness .
INTRODUCTION : Increased angiogenesis in bone marrow is one of the characteristics of chronic myeloid leukaemia ( CML ) , a clonal myeloproliferative disorder that expresses a chimeric bcr / abl protein .
The cell type specific glycosylation protects Sp1 and HIF1alpha from proteosome degradation and plays an important and novel role in the regulation of VEGF in DCN transfected MCE cells .
Protein expression was statistically compared to the degree of immune cell infiltration and microvessel density in epithelial - derived ovarian tumors and a significant correlation was observed for both .
Treatment with cyclopamine significantly attenuated vascular formation by a factor of 2 . 5 ( P less than 0 . 001 ) and altered vascular morphology .
From these data , as well as earlier evidence demonstrating that the reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide ( NADH ) shuttle in these cells requires a transaminase step and is thus identified as the malate - aspartate shuttle ( W . V . V . Greenhouse and A . L . Lehninger , Cancer Res . , 36 : 1392 - 1396 , 1976 ) , metabolic flux diagrams were constructed for the five cell lines .
The differential regulation of human telomerase reverse transcriptase and vascular endothelial growth factor may contribute to the clinically more aggressive behavior of p63 - positive breast carcinomas .
In addition , higher apoptotic counts were associated with HRK positivity .
DNA fragmentation occurred in response to anti - Fas treatment .
In uremic patients , NOS activity is positively correlated with the duration of PD .
In the distraction group , a significant postoperative increase in MMP - 1 , bFGF , ALP , and BAP could be observed during the lengthening and the consolidation period when compared with the baseline levels .
This technique also revealed the inhibitory effect of the NOS inhibitor N ( G ) - iminoethyl - L - ornithine in VEGF - mediated in vivo angiogenesis .
However , E mu - directed coexpression of cyclin D1 and N - MYC or L - MYC in double transgenic mice reveals a strong cooperative effect between MYC and cyclin D1 provoking the rapid development of clonal pre - B and B - cell lymphomas .
Inhibition of NF - kappaB significantly reduced transcript levels and autocrine production of BMP - 2 by rhTNF - alpha stimulated C4 - 2B cells and to a lesser extent by the parental LNCaP cells .
We have , therefore , examined components of this plasminogen activating system in patients with Non - Small Cell Lung Cancer ( NSCLC ) .
The biological significance of this regulation of the two major pathways of energy generation by p53 remains to be seen .
Ectopic localization of mitochondrial ATP synthase : a target for anti - angiogenesis intervention ?
Clinically , elderly patients are more vulnerable to acute myocardial infarction ( AMI ) .
Smooth muscle - rich tissues respond to mechanical overload by an adaptive hypertrophic growth combined with activation of angiogenesis , which potentiates their mechanical overload - bearing capabilities .
We report that curcumin induces cell shrinkage , chromatin condensation , and DNA fragmentation , characteristics of apoptosis , in immortalized mouse embryo fibroblast NIH 3T3 erb B2 oncogene - transformed NIH 3T3 , mouse sarcoma S180 , human colon cancer cell HT - 29 , human kidney cancer cell 293 , and human hepatocellular carcinoma Hep G2 cells , but not in primary culture of mouse embryonic fibroblast C3H 10T1 / 2 , rat embryonic fibroblast , and human foreskin fibroblast cells in a concentration - and time - dependent manner .
Balb / c 3T3 cells carrying this NPC - LMP gene showed a transformed cell morphology and were tumorigenic in nude mice .
Until recently , their role in pathogenesis was largely unexplored .
Effects of 3 - chloromethylthiochromone - 1 , 1 - dioxide on nucleic acid , protein , and aerobic and anaerobic metabolism of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells .
Juice and peels , for example , possess potent antioxidant properties , while juice , peel and oil are all weakly estrogenic and heuristically of interest for the treatment of menopausal symptoms and sequellae .
Some human cancer cells have been found to overexpress eph mRNAs without gene amplification .
Western blot was performed to detect the effect of curcumin on the expression of uPA .
When plated in 2 % serum on dishes precoated with reconstituted basement membrane ( Matrigel ) , HUVECs infected with AdCMV . VEGF165 ( 20 pfu per cell ) differentiated into capillary - like structures .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is a vascular growth factor which induces angiogenesis ( the development of new blood vessels ) , vascular permeability , and inflammation .
Anarchic angiogenesis with large , moniliform , tortuous vessels was seen in severe dysplasias and carcinomas .
Notably , three immortalizing E6 mutants that do not induce direct p53 degradation but do interact with hADA3 induced the abrogation of p53 - mediated transactivation and G ( 1 ) cell cycle arrest after DNA damage , comparable to wild - type E6 .
With U937 cells , tunicamycin treatment resulted in the appearance of a 30 - 40 kDa band and increased staining of a 45 kDa band .
The interaction of virally derived and endogenous cellular proteins converges in deregulation of cell cycle progression and appears to be critical for the development of cervical cancers .
Medical therapy for intermittent claudication .
Alpha - melanocyte - stimulating hormone ( alpha - MSH ) has evolved as a mediator of diverse biological activities in an ever - growing number of non - melanocytic cell types .
Mast cell heparin stimulates migration of capillary endothelial cells in vitro .
However , the expression level of E - cadherin had an inverse relationship with both differentiation level of the tumor and lymphatic vessel invasion ( p = 0 . 0430 and 0 . 0320 , respectively ) .
Breast cancer cells lacking final sigma expression showed increased number of chromosomal breaks and gaps when exposed to gamma - irradiation .
Postoperative progression of pulmonary metastasis in osteosarcoma .
The cell autonomous function of p53 in melanocytes is not well described , however , the balance of the evidence suggests that p53 is an effective tumor suppressor and the myriad of mechanisms by which the p53 pathway may be dysregulated in tumors attests to it importance as a tumor suppressor .
We show here that p10 , which arises from the use of an alternative splice donor site within intron 1 , is conserved in the mouse genome and is widely expressed in mouse tissues .
We measured serum IL - 8 and urine IL - 8 levels in patients with NHL , and we compared the concentrations with those of control individuals .
Expression of EphA2 and E - cadherin in colorectal cancer : correlation with cancer metastasis .
In the face fo the fatal outcome , new approaches to the therapy have been established .
Induction of gelatinases ( matrix metalloproteinase 2 and 9 ) , the serine protease tissue plasminogen activator and plasmin by DCN transfection in MCE cells leads to extracellular proteolysis and to release of matrix - bound VEGF and activation of angiogenesis .
This study investigated the expression of TS and DPD in cervical lymph node metastases and its relationship with primary OSCC , as well as the interaction between these enzymes and Kangai 1 ( KAI1 / CD82 ) which is a metastasis suppressor protein .
In addition to well established functions to block cell proliferation , recent studies have revealed a role for p53 in the regulation of pathways involved in glucose metabolism .
The findings in the tissue samples were analyzed with regard to the patients ' risk factors and clinical course .
We tested whether as well as inhibiting leukocyte elastase ( LE ) activity , Hyp might be effective in containing both polymorphonuclear neutrophil ( PMN ) leukocyte recruitment and unfavorable eventual tissue responses .
Highly specialized cells , the thyrocytes , express a thyroid - specific set of genes for thyroglobulin ( Tg ) , thyroperoxidase , and the transcription factors TTF - 1 , TTF - 2 , and Pax - 8 .
Median overall and progression - free survivals are 14 . 4 and 4 . 7 months , respectively .
Recent studies using avian retrovirus - mediated introduction of oncogenes into a small subset of somatic mammary cells suggest that polyoma middle T antigen ( PyMT ) may also preferentially transform stem / progenitor cells .
Results from the present investigation reveal that cultured primary skin fibroblasts cease to proliferate once they reach confluence ; these cells are thus contact inhibited in vitro .
These results suggest that non - thrombogenic agonists or antagonists of the activated thrombin receptor can be used as modulators of angiogenesis .
beta - catenin signaling controls metastasis in Braf - activated Pten - deficient melanomas .
Endothelial cell proliferation and migration is essential to angiogenesis .
Acetylation of histone and non - histone proteins , induction of apoptotic - related proteins and de - phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase were confirmed in treated mice .
Tobacco smoke promotes lung tumorigenesis by triggering IKKbeta - and JNK1 - dependent inflammation .
This pattern of expression is consistent with a mechanistic involvement of 5T4 molecules in the spread of cancer cells .
Patient charts were reviewed for visual acuity of the treated eye before PDT and at 6 - and 12 - month follow - up examinations .
However , co - culture of these cancer cells with stromal or osteoblastic cells induced RANKL mRNA expression and decreased OPG mRNA expression .
Several regulatory and signaling molecules governing angiogenesis are of interest , including growth factors ( eg , vascular endothelial growth factor , platelet - derived growth factor , fibroblast growth factor , and epidermal growth factor ) , receptor tyrosine kinases , and transcription factors such as hypoxia inducible factor , as well as molecules involved in mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) and phosphoinositide 3 - kinase ( PI3K ) signaling .
Furthermore , interaction of fibroblasts and high invasive melanoma cells with soluble recombinant DC - 9 resulted in enhanced expression of MMP - 1 and MMP - 2 .
The induction of elevated p53 levels commenced at immediate - early times of the HCMV multiplication cycle ( 6 h postinfection ) and reached maximal levels by 24 h postinfection , before most of the HCMV DNA synthesis was initiated .
We previously reported that a single dose of ethanol ( 1 . 4 g / kg ) , yielding a blood alcohol concentration of 100 mg / dl , significantly impairs angiogenesis in murine wounds , despite adequate levels of VEGF , suggesting direct effects of ethanol on endothelial cell signaling ( 40 ) .
DMI is suggested to inhibit the growth of Ca3 / 7 cells and to affect GR - mediated transcription .
Our results suggest that EPOX is a novel antiangiogenic agent , making it a promising lead compound for further development in the treatment of angiogenesis - related pathologies .
By contrast to the cytoplasmic BAG - 1 isoforms , BAG - 1L may act to suppress tumorigenesis .
Wnt signaling , stem cells , and the cellular origin of breast cancer .
Interestingly , the neutralization of beta ( 1 ) or the inactivation of PAK increases PSMA activity , suggesting that they negatively regulate PSMA .
The metabolism of [ 1 , 2 - ( 13 ) C ( 2 ) ] - glucose by HUVEC allows us to trace many of the main glucose metabolic pathways , including glycogen synthesis , the pentose cycle and the glycolytic pathways .
Nuclear factor - kappaB ( NF - kappaB ) activation contributes to the development of metastasis , thus leading to a poor prognosis in many cancers , including OSCC .
However , it is unclear whether sunitinib acts only through an antiangiogenic mechanism or whether it may also directly target tumor cells .
Angiogenesis defines the many steps involved in the growth and migration of endothelial cell - derived blood vessels .
G ( i ) protein , phosphatidylinositol - 3 kinase ( PI3K ) , p38 mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) , cytosolic phospholipase A ( 2 ) and urokinase type plasminogen activator ( uPA ) are required for LPA - induced cells invasion .
RESULTS : Endometrial glands in the proliferative and early secretory phase expressed both DCC and netrin - 1 , but glands in the late - secretory phase tended to silence DCC expression .
Thrombin greatly potentiates vascular endothelial growth factor - ( VEGF - ) induced endothelial cell proliferation .
Counteracting islet endothelial cell inflammation might be one way to ameliorate / prevent beta - cell dysfunction in type 2 diabetes .
Solid tumors must establish a blood supply in order to proliferate and grow .
Slight variations are caused by drug treatment in tumor - bearing mice as compared with untreated tumor - bearing controls ; the pattern of effects of the selective antimetastatic agents does not differ from that of the reference cytotoxic compound used , cyclophosphamide .
Shear stress - induced transcriptional suppression of Tie1 is mediated by a negative shear stress response element , localized in a region of 250 bp within the promoter .
The overall mutation rate of the MCR of the APC gene among 86 CRC cases was 12 . 8 per cent ( 11 of 86 ) .
Intriguingly , metabolic stress triggers primarily an adaptive ( rather than pro - apoptotic ) p53 response , and p53 is emerging as an important regulator of metabolic homeostasis .
Further , the overexpression of 14 - 3 - 3zeta correlated with histological grades , lymph node metastasis and poor clinical outcome .
The PCR products were then subject to XhoI digestion and to DNA sequencing analysis .
In multivariate analysis , PE was found to be a significant ( P = 0 . 03 ) predictor of overall survival ( OS ) with adjustment of the other baseline covariates , including patient age , history of antecedent hematologic disorders , and the use of protective environments .
Concomitantly , immunostaining for apoptosis inducing factor ( AIF ) showed a time - dependent translocation from the mitochondria to the nucleus .
We hypothesize that neuroblastoma cells will interact with host tissues to release mediators that affect apoptosis .
CONCLUSIONS : Enoxaparine Na decreased intra - abdominal adhesions , and HBO therapy had no beneficial effect on adhesions .
In contrast , multicellular spheroids mimic heterogeneous cellular behavior and the consequent functional characteristics of in vivo solid tumors , and serve as important in vitro model to investigate tumor biology and responses to potential therapeutic agents .
Here we show that recombinant human prothrombin kringle - 2 ( rk - 2 ) inhibited bovine capillary endothelial cell migration with an IC ( 50 ) ( concentration for half maximal inhibition ) of 38 nM and inhibited adhesion to extracellular matrix ( ECM ) proteins .
N - ( Phosphonacetyl ) - L - aspartate ( PALA ) suppressed the growth of Ehrlich ascites tumour cells in vivo in a dose - dependent manner .
One hTERT transduced BMEC culture underwent a long proliferative lag before resuming proliferation .
Identification of a small region of the v - fos gene product that is sufficient for transforming potential and growth - stimulating activity .
RESULTS : Both inhibition of proliferation ( p < 0 . 05 ) and induction of apoptosis ( p < 0 . 05 ) were observed in SKOV3 cells transfected with hPNAS - 4 - p in vitro .
p75 mediated apoptosis in neuroblastoma cells is inhibited by expression of TrkA .
One of the most fundamental is the ability to act as essential growth checkpoint that protects cells against cellular transformation .
Point mutations of H - ras however , were identified in three distant metastatic pituitary tumor secondaries , but not in their respective primary pituitary carcinomas , or in six invasive adenomas .
In contrast , none of the patients with JEB had elevated levels of bFGF .
Once in position , these cells coalesce and form cords , which lumenize and become ensheathed by supporting pericytes and smooth muscle cells .
Rapid endothelial cell migration and inhibition of thrombosis are critical for the resolution of denudation injuries to the vessel wall .
IL - 18 , originally identified as interferon - gamma inducing factor ( IGIF ) , is related to the IL - 1 family in terms of its structure as well as its processing , receptor , signal transduction pathway and pro - inflammatory properties .
DNA microarray analysis and small animal PET studies may be used as complementary technologies in drug development .
The specific isoform ( s ) of PKC responsible for each of these changes has not been previously identified .
Presence of subfoveal CNV at 6 and 12 months of follow - up was determined by review of fluorescein angiograms .
Glucose consumption by drug - resistant myeloma cells was unaffected by 8 - aminoadenosine , and accordingly , no activation of autophagy was observed .
Adenovirus 5 E1A enhances histone deacetylase inhibitors - induced apoptosis through Egr - 1 - mediated Bim upregulation .
Newly forming vessels have thin caliber , a markedly reduced vessel lumen , markedly reduced pericyte recruitment , and deficient vascular perfusion .
Angiostatin inhibits both ATP synthesis and ATP hydrolysis ( Moser et al . , 2001 ) and interferes with intracellular pH regulation ( Wahl and Grant , 2002 ; Wahl et al . , 2002 ) .
The positive rates of expression of MMP - 9 in CNE1 and CNE1 - GL cells were 30 . 2 % and 98 . 2 % , respectively ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Finally , anti - p53 monoclonal antibodies only slightly affected in vitro phosphorylation reactions , whereas a p53 molecule from a simian virus 40 - free , chemically transformed human cell line was not phosphorylated in vitro under any condition tested .
Associations with cancer risk were estimated using two - sided logistic regression .
The interaction of neoplastic cells with the extracellular matrix is a critical event for the initiation of cancer invasion and metastasis .
To understand the mechanisms behind these processes , we have examined the effect of FVIIa on apoptosis .
Melanoma cells and human fibroblasts adhered to immobilized DC - 9 in a Mn ( 2 + ) - dependent fashion suggesting an integrin - mediated process .
Additional rats underwent partial hepatectomy , an immunosuppressive procedure known to accelerate the growth of hepatic tumor , following tumor challenge .
A major step forwards in the treatment of solid tumors is the recognition of the tumor - associated vasculature as an important target for therapy .
The majority had nuclear ( 70 . 1 % ) or nuclear and cytoplasmic staining ( 17 . 3 % ) .
In order to explore the mechanism of action of angiostatin and its mimetics , further work needs to be done to evaluate clinical applicability , specificity , and contraindications for this class of therapeutics .
Molecular modeling studies suggested that mutation N172D , located within the substrate binding region , is mainly responsible for impaired mutCK1delta activity .
Eleven lesions progressed to a subfoveal location by 12 months .
Additionally , 3 - BrPA treatment significantly impaired lactate production by HepG2 cells , even when glucose was withdrawn from the incubation medium .
Studies on the inactivation of these properties of EGF by specific cleavage of the molecule with CNBr or proteases suggest that an intact loop composed in part by amino acid residues 20 to 31 is essential for at least some functions .
Transformation of mammary epithelial cells ( MECs ) from the normal to the neoplastic stage requires the dysregulation of tumor suppressor genes and proto - oncogenes .
METHODS : Tissues samples were taken from 60 patients with esophageal SCC after surgery .
DMBA maxima were significantly higher than those of DMBA + radiation .
Inhibition of angiogenesis has been shown to be an effective strategy in cancer therapy in mice .
Reduced PTEN expression was inversely correlated to the expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen and to the activation of Erk1 , 2 , but not of Akt .
However , we show here that VEGF , specifically through VEGFR2 , induces phosphorylation of two serine residues on PLCbeta3 , and this was confirmed in an ex vivo embryoid body model .
In addition , we report here the identification of two RNA transcripts of type II - like tumor HK of approximately 5 . 5 and approximately 4 . 0 kb in these cancer cells lines , including muscle - derived L6 myoblast cells .
The inhibition of cultured myoblast differentiation by the simian virus 40 large T antigen occurs after myogenin expression and Rb up - regulation and is not exerted by transformation - competent cytoplasmic mutants .
Modulation of invasion within such systems is ascribed to balances between promoter and suppressor pathways .
Promoting angiogenesis via manipulation of VEGF responsiveness with notch signaling .
We show that transgenic expression of CDKs in the embryonic oral ectoderm is specifically retained in undifferentiated cells from the pars intermedia of the adenohypophysis .
To explore the gene expression changes that occur downstream of ELK - 1 dephosphorylation , we used a combination of temporal gene expression data and promoter element analyses .
Bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy is first - line therapy for stage IV disease .
Two weeks after injection , there was histological evidence of neovascularization in the tissues surrounding the Matrigel containing AdCMV . VEGF165 , whereas no significant angiogenesis was observed in response to AdCMV . beta gal .
[ Activation of sterol regulatory element binding protein and its involvement in endothelial cell migration ]
Furthermore , immunoreactivity assay of cytoskeletal F - actin demonstrated a significant inhibitory effect of GA treatment .
Microvascular density and vascular endothelial growth factor immunoreactivity as predictors of regional lymph node metastasis from betel - associated oral squamous cell carcinoma .
Surprisingly , TSP - 2 expression was strongly upregulated in the mesenchymal stroma of wild - type mice throughout the consecutive stages of tumorigenesis whereas the angiogenesis factor , vascular endothelial growth factor , was induced predominantly in tumor cells .
Thus , the differential regulation of hTERT and VEGF in p63 - positive breast carcinomas may contribute to the clinically more aggressive behavior of these neoplasms .
Role of the interferon - inducible IFI16 gene in the induction of ICAM - 1 by TNF - alpha .
In wild - type VHL cells , whereas VEGF - A was significantly up - regulated under hypoxic compared with normoxic conditions ( P less than 0 . 001 ) , expression of VEGF - C was reduced ( P less than 0 . 002 ) .
Proteome analysis of NIH3T3 cells transformed by activated Galpha12 : regulation of leukemia - associated protein SET .
In DU - 145 cells apoptosis was increased by lower TRAIL concentrations and was earlier than in PC - 3 cells , as shown using Annexin V - binding assay .
RESULTS : Mean ( + / - SEM ) graft survival was significantly prolonged in animals receiving spironolactone ( 14 . 9 + / - 2 . 0 days ) compared with both PBS - treated ( 12 . 3 + / - 1 . 2 days , p = 0 . 007 ) and untreated controls ( 13 . 0 + / - 1 . 0 days , p = 0 . 01 ) .
The oxidative burst of neutrophils stimulated by Annexin V was reduced in the saline - treated MTX group , while L - Car abolished this inhibition .
Mean tumour volume was significantly lower in the DMBA - vitamin E group compared to the tumour control group .
Deleted in split hand / split foot 1 ( Dss1 ) is a gene associated with a heterogeneous limb developmental disorder called split hand / split foot malformation .
OBJECTIVES : To compare the proteomic expression profile between an Epstein - Barr virus - associated NPC cell line ( C666 - 1 ) and a normal NP cell line ( NP69 ) .
The present study provides direct evidence on the role of cell morphology in EC migration , and will help us to understand the mechanisms of EC migration during angiogenesis and wound healing .
These results suggest that desensitization of certain agonist - induced inositol phospholipid responses in ras - transformed cells is a consequence of increased cell proliferation and associated amplification in C - kinase activity and is an indirect consequence of transformation by ras .
CONCLUSION : In early - stage breast cancer patients , overexpression of c - erbB2 is a marker of lack of efficacy of adjuvant tamoxifen .
Nevertheless , using an miR - BHRF1 - 1 and miR - BHRF1 - 3 double mutant , we could directly assess and confirm the contribution of miR - BHRF1 - 2 to B - cell transformation .
The results showed that betulin significantly inhibited cell viability in cervix carcinoma HeLa cells , hepatoma HepG2 cells , lung adenocarcinoma A549 cells , and breast cancer MCF - 7 cells with IC ( 50 ) values ranging from 10 to 15 microg / mL .
Immunohistochemical staining demonstrated VEGF in the tissues surrounding the Matrigel plugs containing AdCMV . VEGF165 up to 3 weeks after injection , whereas no VEGF was found in the control plugs with AdCMV . beta gal .
Thus , vimentin expression may be helpful in identifying a substantial subset of ER - independent breast carcinomas with poor prognostic indicators .
Therefore , we confirmed the key findings by replicating these experiments in human neuroblastoma SK - N - SH cells .
Expression of DCC and netrin - 1 in normal human endometrium and its implication in endometrial carcinogenesis .
John ' s wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) , has emerged as key player not only in the antidepressant activity of the plant but also as an inhibitor of bacteria lymphocyte and tumor cell proliferation , and matrix proteinases .
Furthermore , we found a significant association between tumour location , tumour grade and node status and the methylation status of the APC gene ( p < = 0 . 05 ) .
We performed comparative proteomic and pathway analysis of four human metastatic HCC cell lines to identify metastasis - associated proteins .
When the two groups were compared with respect to poor and good CCC , poor CCC was higher in patients with PDR ( 64 vs . 36 % , respectively , p = 0 . 01 ) .
BACKGROUND : Angiogenesis plays an important role in maintaining adequate oxygen delivery , and nitric oxide ( NO ) is a potential regulator of angiogenesis .
Considering the relatively few number of patients treated by angiogenic therapy , the interpretation of clinical results needs cautiousness .
Rofecoxib as adjunctive therapy for haemophilic arthropathy .
These effects do not require direct cell - cell contact , yet result from continuous interaction between activated lymphoid cells and EC .
In addition , LMP1 plays pleiotropic roles in cell growth arrest , differentiation , and apoptosis , depending on the background of the target cells .
This observation indicates that VCSA expression at the cell surface is likely to be the result of the interaction between the viral src gene product pp60src with host cell gene ( s ) or gene product ( s ) , rather than the simple expression of this molecule at the cell surface .
Immunohistochemistry scores for matrix metalloproteinase - 9 expression were significantly elevated compared to controls in scar endothelial cells and fibroblasts from 2 until 12 and 20 weeks , respectively .
As predicted , these MEFs upregulated Hif - 1alpha and HIF target genes directly as a result of FH deficiency .
Both tumor - bearing ( TB ) and nontumor bearing ( NTB ) animals were gaining weight prior to study and the tumors were relatively small .
Thus , such a resonating cross - talk can amplify Hedgehog signaling , resulting in molecular chatter that overall promotes tumor progression .
Statistically significant differences were observed between groups 1 and 4 and between groups 1 and 3 regarding the hydroxyproline content of the abdominal wounds .
HIF - 2alpha was detected in hypoxic and in well - oxygenized neuroblastoma cells and tissue , presumably reflecting their embryonic features .
Desensitization could be induced in NIH - 3T3 cells by culturing under conditions where the cells were all in the exponential growth phase , or by a 12 h exposure to a C - kinase - activating phorbol ester .
Rab GTPase regulation of VEGFR2 trafficking and signaling in endothelial cells .
Low concentrations of SN - 38 , but not 5 - FU and L - OHP , preferentially inhibited endothelial cell proliferation .
Angiotensin II ( Ang II ) is a potent vasoconstrictor that increases concomitant with sFlt - 1 during pregnancy .
This limitation may be resolved by in vivo delivery and expression of the antiangiogenic genes .
Finally , genetic ablation of Brk1 results in dramatic defects in embryo compaction and development , suggesting an essential role for this protein in actin dynamics .
In the absence of both GM - CSF and fetal bovine serum ( FBS ) , 70 % of the DNA was fragmented after 3 days in culture , with a characteristic apoptotic ladder - like pattern on agarose gel electrophoresis , whereas this proportion had initially been < 5 % .
Treatment with pharmacological inhibitors and small interfering RNAs reveal that induction and activation of Sp1 , HIF1alpha , and Stat3 facilitate their nuclear localization and binding to their specific motifs of the VEGF promoter and induce VEGF expression via two independent pathways , DCN / EGFR / phosphoinositide - 3 kinase / AKT and DCN / EGFR / ERK1 / 2 , respectively , in DCN synthesizing MCE cells .
Hematogenous metastasis in gastric cancer requires isolated tumor cells and expression of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 1 .
Mice with EC - specific deletion of Dicer , a key enzyme for generating miRNAs , display defective postnatal angiogenesis .
The mean BCVA increased from 20 / 76 to 20 / 64 .
CONCLUSION : These results demonstrated that cRGD - modified heparin derivative enhanced anti - angiotherapeutic effects against solid tumor , and therefore , it could be applied to treat various cancers and angiogenic diseases as a potent angiogenesis inhibitor .
Isotype - specific inhibitors of the glycolytic key regulator pyruvate kinase subtype M2 moderately decelerate tumor cell proliferation .
The aim of this study was the assessment of correlations among proteins involved in apoptosis - Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 - as well as relationships of these proteins with selected clinicopathological features in oral squamous cell carcinoma .
Neoplastic transformation of ciliary body epithelium is associated with loss of opticin expression .
These results define a novel function of Evi - 1 as a repressor of signaling components of TGF - beta .
Nitric oxide ( NO ) plays an important role in maintaining vascular homeostasis .
Oncogenic mechanisms of Evi - 1 protein .
Groups 1 and 2 consisted of 48 patients without DR and 42 patients with PDR , respectively .
The factor is present in medium conditioned by mast cells as well as lysates of mast cells .
Attenuation of the proangiogenic effects by neutralizing VEGF antibodies suggests VEGF play a key role in the acquisition of the angiogenic phenotype in oral cancer cells .
They are important components of the growth regulatory pathways in normal cells .
In this study we investigated the serum VEGF level ( s - VEGF ) in patients with renal cell carcinoma ( RCC ) .
Our results suggest that formation of a ternary complex of VEGF165 , KDR , and NRP1 potentiates VEGF165 binding to KDR .
AIM : To determine whether a variety of ciliary body tumours synthesise opticin to characterise further its role in ciliary body health and disease .
Here , we evaluated the usefulness of measuring serum and urine IL - 8 levels in patients with NHL .
These results suggest that prolonged treatment with tumor promoters alters the sensitivity of cells to activators of protein kinase C in a growth state - dependent manner .
In these settings TNF demonstrates potent and selective activity on the tumor vascular bed , which strongly improves tumor response .
The success of current systemic and intravesical therapeutic agents , such as cisplatin , thiotepa , Adriamycin , mitomycin C , and bacillus Calmette - Guerin , is limited with recurrence rates reduced to 17 - 44 % .
The human T - cell leukemia viruses HTLV - I and HTLV - II are unique among the transforming retroviruses of vertebrates in their ability to transform human T cells in vitro and in their close association with human malignancies ( T - cell lymphomas and leukemia ) .
This study aimed to clarify the relationship between the expression of the EphA2 and E - cadherin proteins and clinicopathological characteristics , with reference to the expression levels of both EphA2 and E - cadherin , in patients with colorectal cancer .
These data provide a mechanism whereby VASP can influence endothelial migration and organization during capillary formation and modulate vascular permeability via effects on endothelial cell contractility .
Role of osteopontin in adhesion , migration , cell survival and bone remodeling .
Recently , it has become apparent that microRNAs ( miRNAs ) also contribute to EBV ' s oncogenic properties ; recombinant EBVs that lack the BHRF1 miRNA cluster display a reduced ability to transform B lymphocytes in vitro .
This pathway has been implicated to play a role in the pathogenesis of cancer and in embryonic blood vessel development .
Recent studies have demonstrated that tumor cells treated with antibodies specific for beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin ( beta ( 2 ) M ) or major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) class I molecules undergo apoptosis in vitro and in vivo ( mouse models ) .
These alterations bore similarities to abnormalities in differentiation observed in naturally occurring squamous epithelial malignancies .
Bmi - 1 over - expression therefore has more pronounced effects in culture and does not appear to be sufficient to induce tumorigenesis in vivo .
RESULTS : The apoptosis rate of the old donor - derived MSCs group was significantly higher than that of the young donor - derived MSCs group under conditions of ischemia and anoxia ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
To better understand the activity of cediranib against VEGFR - 3 and its associated signaling events compared with its activity against VEGFR - 2 , we used the receptor - specific ligands VEGF - E and VEGF - C156S .
Antibodies developed to human endosialin were used to investigate endosialin expression and function in human prenatal brain pericytes and pericytes residing in tumors .
Loss of tumor suppressor proteins , which function as brakes on cell growth , migration , or cell survival , was recognized early on as an important mechanism for initiation and progression of melanoma .
N - myc augments death and attenuates protective effects of Bcl - 2 in trophically stressed neuroblastoma cells .
Analysis of molecular aberrations of Wnt pathway gladiators in colorectal cancer in the Kashmiri population .
This study validates a role for Met activation in melanoma tumor progression in the context of Cdkn2a deficiency .
Although in vivo studies have shown that such inhibition stems from complex interactions of immune cells and the production of IFN - gamma and other downstream angiostatic chemokines , the mechanisms involved are still poorly defined .
The semaphorin 7A receptor Plexin C1 is lost during melanoma metastasis .
Functional significance of VEGF - a in human ovarian carcinoma : role in vasculogenic mimicry .
PTEN mRNA and protein were less frequently expressed in early and advanced gastric carcinomas than that in normal gastric mucosa ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
The data support the hypothesis that increased epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) and transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - alpha expression is associated with early events in malignant transformation of pleomorphic adenoma ( PA ) .
Here we show that heterozygous disruption of beclin 1 increases the frequency of spontaneous malignancies and accelerates the development of hepatitis B virus - induced premalignant lesions .
There is evidence for the implication of ARF in angiogenesis .
Recently VEGF - B and VEGF - C , two new VEGF family members , have been identified that bind to the tyrosine kinase receptors flt - 1 ( VEGFR1 ) , KDR ( VEGFR2 ) , and flt - 4 ( VEGFR3 ) .
Finally , intraperitoneal injection or oral administration of HTPB efficiently inhibited A549 xenograft tumor growth in vivo without side effects .
However , most current anti - VEGF agents often cause some side effects when given chronically .
In the present study , the authors used molecular techniques to analyze the clonal composition of five cases of concurrent adenocarcinomas of the endometrium and ovary that were clinicopathologically diagnosed as synchronous primary tumors .
A cohort of unspecified mesodermal cells differentiates into primitive endothelial cells , which migrate to and occupy positions within the stereotypical blueprint of the primitive vasculature .
The transformed cells were cloned after in vivo tumorigenic assay , and 4 clones were analyzed for osteonectin expression by Northern blots .
Solid tumors express a range of factors required to sustain their growth and promote their dissemination .
Extensive research , however , has revealed that TNF - alpha is one of the major players in tumor initiation , proliferation , invasion , angiogenesis and metastasis .
Invasion of adjacent organs was more frequent in the RSCM group than in the RSCB group and the Ki - 67 labeling index of the tumors was significantly higher in the former group .
Rat 6 cells are not transformed by treatment with the well - known carcinogens benzo [ a ] pyrene ( BP ) or N - methyl - N - nitro - N ' - nitrosoguanidine ( MNNG ) .
In conclusion , 14 - 3 - 3zeta and beta - catenin might have an important role in development , progression and metastatic process of NSCLC .
At present , the percentage of such a modification is low , unless referred to selected series of tumours .
Obesity is a common disorder and related diseases such as diabetes , atherosclerosis , hypertension , cardiovascular disease and cancer are a major cause of mortality and morbidity in Western - type societies .
In 17 rabbits , a 2 - cm strip of latissimus dorsi was woven into the parascapular fat pad on one side , with the contralateral fat pad serving as a control .
Despite several advances in therapeutic options , the disease remains incurable .
Inhibitors of Akt and P13 - kinase , the upstream activator of Akt , block endothelial cell migration and disrupt paxillin localization to the focal adhesions after stimulation with VEGF and S1P .
Brn - 3a , a neuronal transcription factor of the POU gene family : indications for its involvement in cancer and angiogenesis .
Each bone was placed in masseter muscle separately .
AID deaminates cytidines in DNA resulting in U : G mismatches that are processed into point mutations in SHM or double - strand breaks in CSR .
Effect of platelet - rich plasma and fibrin glue on healing of critical - size calvarial bone defects .
Hypoxia rapidly induced both JNK1 and p38 activity in these cells .
Therefore , we have identified a novel role for PSMA as a true molecular interface , integrating both extracellular and intracellular signals during angiogenesis .
When TB4 expression in B16F10 cells was inhibited by the infection with small hairpin ( sh ) RNA of TB4 cloned in lentiviral vector , tumor cell migration was retarded .
Manipulating angiomiRs in the settings of pathological vascularization represents a new therapeutic approach .
In this location , it interacts with other proteins of the focal adhesion to activate intracellular signalling events associated with cell adhesion .
This study investigates the systemic biochemical regulation of fracture healing in distraction osteogenesis compared with rigid osteotomy in a prospective in vivo study in humans .
Normal cells mostly rely on mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation to produce energy .
In contrast , rap1GAPII , a negative regulator of Rap1 , did not inhibit ephrin - B1 - induced membrane ruffling .
Constitutively nuclear FOXO3a localization predicts poor survival and promotes Akt phosphorylation in breast cancer .
Patients had primarily relapsed diffuse large B - cell lymphoma ( 63 % ) were heavily pretreated ( median of three regimens ) and high risk ( 79 % international prognostic index , greater than or = 2 ) and 34 % were relapsed after autologous stem cell transplant .
The MVD and Ki - 67 LI were significantly higher ( p less than 0 . 01 and p less than 0 . 001 ) , and the AI was significantly lower ( p less than 0 . 001 ) in the SCC with p53 protein expression than in the SCC without it .
Expression of both receptors was studied in biopsy samples from 92 patients ( 6 males and 86 females ; age ranging from 28 to 86 years , mean 56 years ) .
Liposomal honokiol inhibits VEGF - D - induced lymphangiogenesis and metastasis in xenograft tumor model .
We examined whether betulin , a naturally abundant compound , has anticancer functions in human cancer cells .
To investigate the possibility that this regulatory connection contributes to Myb ' s oncogenicity , we expressed a dominant negative Myb in the myeloid leukemic cell line RI - 4 - 11 .
The structural and functional development of the pulmonary system is dependent upon appropriate early vascularization of the embryonic lung .
In the developing retinal vasculature , numerous , long filamentous filopodia , emanating from endothelial cells at the tips of angiogenic sprouts , were observed in wild - type animals , but to a lesser extent in the PECAM - 1 - null mice .
Endothelialisation and platelet adhesion to purified endothelial cell - derived perlecan , the major heparan sulfate ( HS ) proteoglycan in basement membranes , were investigated using in vivo and in vitro assays .
METHODS : MSCs from Sprague - Dawley ( SD ) rats were isolated and cultured in vitro .
The p53 tumor suppressor plays pivotal role in the organism by supervising strict compliance of individual cells to needs of the whole organisms .
Treatment of cells with PKC inhibitors also potentiated anchorage - independent growth of BPDE treated cells on soft agar .
Cells which had been grown in medium containing 1 ng / ml TGF - beta developed colony - forming capacity in soft agar containing epidermal growth factor .
In vivo assay further showed that GSE could inhibit tumor growth and tumor angiogenesis of MDA - MB - 231 breast cancer cells in mice .
Clinical studies have shown elevated serum IL - 6 concentrations in patients with endometrial cancer , non - small cell lung carcinoma , colorectal cancer , renal cell carcinoma , breast and ovarian cancer .
TEL , a putative tumor suppressor , modulates cell growth and cell morphology of ras - transformed cells while repressing the transcription of stromelysin - 1 .
Thrombin decreases the ability of endothelial cells to attach to basement membrane proteins .
Blockade of PAF - R by WEB - 2170 , a PAF - R antagonist , abolished the CD154 - dependent motility , indicating a role for PAF synthesized after CD154 stimulation in renal carcinoma cell motility .
We conclude that prefabrication of a fat flap is possible and may have extensive application in various areas of plastic surgery .
Moreover , outward growth migration model and transwell chamber assay were used to detect ECs migration .
Cooccurrence of reduced expression of alpha - catenin and overexpression of p53 is a predictor of lymph node metastasis in early gastric cancer .
A STAT3 - mediated metabolic switch is involved in tumour transformation and STAT3 addiction .
Glucocorticoid receptor ( GR ) activation has recently been shown to inhibit apoptosis in breast epithelial cells .
The elevated fibrinogen level may be associated with invasiveness and lymphatic metastasis .
VEGF protein was higher in alinidine - treated rats than in controls after 2 weeks and increased further after 3 weeks of treatment .
An important role of proprotein convertases in tumorigenic processes has been suggested by various studies .
In spite of uncertainties regarding the mechanisms of carcinogenesis , several vitamins such as beta - carotene and vitamins A , C , and E , which can reduce the risk of cancer , have been identified , using animal and in vitro models of carcinogenesis .
These disturbed functions are associated with suppression of signaling mechanisms implicated in EC survival and angiogenesis .
miRNA - 126 , an EC - restricted miRNA , regulates vascular integrity and developmental angiogenesis .
Finally , serum - free conditioned medium from MDA - 231 cells inhibited the NK cell activity of human blood lymphocytes .
Although previous studies have concentrated on the effect of UV - B on the host immune response , the effect of UV - B on the tumor cells was not elucidated .
Eligible patients had CNV in which the central boundary of the lesion was between 1 and 199 microm from the geometric center of the foveal avascular zone ( FAZ ) .
BACKGROUND : Neuroblastoma is a childhood tumor that often displays unusual biological behavior .
We found that FGF - BP is dramatically upregulated during the initiation of colorectal and pancreatic adenocarcinoma .
Our studies highlight the plasticity of aggressive human ovarian carcinoma cells and call into question the underlying significance of their ability to form VM in vitro induced by VEGF - a .
Lewis lung carcinomas in mice by up to 65 % .
317615 x 2HCl is a promising new antiangiogenic agent that is in early phase clinical testing .
The increased expression of MMP - 9 was also shown in CNE1 - GL cells by Western blot analysis .
TSP - 1 mRNA levels were decreased in all tumours compared with normal prostate .
Reconstitution of MCF - 7 cells by stable transfection of CASP - 3 cDNA restores all these defects and results in an extensive apoptosis after cisplatin treatment .
Two small RNAs ( 0 . 9 and 0 . 75 kb ) , named Marek ' s disease virus ( MDV ) small RNAs ( MSRs ) and a 10 - kb RNA , all of which map antisense to the MDV ICP4 homolog gene , have been readily detected in MDCC - MSB1 MDV - transformed T - lymphoblastoid cells .
Over a million FDG - PET studies have unequivocally identified increased glucose uptake as a hallmark of metastatic cancer in humans .
Tumor size was measured every 3 days .
Thus , our data show that allergic respiratory inflammation may represent a risk factor for the development of lung metastases and suggest that amelioration of the pulmonary inflammation associated with asthma will have a direct and immediate benefit to the 7 % to 8 % of breast cancer patients with this lung disease .
Previous studies showed that gammaIFN decreases metastatic hepatic tumor growth by stimulating Kupffer cells ( KC ) .
The transplantation of old donor - derived MSCs attenuated apoptosis of cardiomyocytes in the peri - infarct region compared with the control group and the effect was elevated in young donor - derived MSCs ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
Disruption of AR - ARD1 interactions may be a potent intervention for androgen - dependent PCa therapy .
Previous work has shown that a rabbit anti - VCSA serum lyses specifically , in the presence of complement , 51Cr - labelled RSV - transformed cells from different animal species .
However , recent identification of a high - Km glucose phosphorylating activity in a range of cancer cells prompted us to characterize glucose phosphorylating enzymes of cancer cells at the molecular level .
Furthermore , we found that p130 ( Cas ) , but not paxillin , recruited Crk to the nascent focal complex .
Perlecan is a ubiquitous pericellular proteoglycan ideally placed to mediate cell signaling events controlling migration , proliferation , and differentiation .
The group with lymphatic metastasis had higher levels than the group without lymphatic metastasis ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
In particular , the activity of angiogenic factors is crucial for tumor progression .
Targeting a tumor - specific laminin domain critical for human carcinogenesis .
Impaired apoptosis of pulmonary endothelial cells is associated with intimal proliferation and irreversibility of pulmonary hypertension in congenital heart disease .
In the current article we demonstrate that TnI inhibits both bFGF - stimulated and basal levels of endothelial cell proliferation , and we hypothesize that this inhibition is occurring , at least in part , via an interaction of TnI with the cell - surface bFGF receptor on capillary endothelial cells .
Angiotensin II induces soluble fms - Like tyrosine kinase - 1 release via calcineurin signaling pathway in pregnancy .
The B ( 1 ) R distribution pattern mirrored that of HER2 except that B ( 1 ) R was additionally observed in the adenomas .
The co - injection of anti - Le ( x ) / Le ( a ) or anti - beta ( 1 ) - integrin antibodies produced a marked reduction in the size of A431 tumors , which were not vascularized and accompanied an independent tiny remnant clump of F - 2 cells .
Moreover , in the presence of glucose , the malate - citrate cycle did not appear to play an important role in the glutaminolytic process .
CONCLUSIONS : This study has identified that the MMP / TIMP profile is an independent indicator of poor prognosis in colorectal cancer .
By interacting with Sp1 , HMGA2 interferes with the recruitment of HDAC2 to the hTERT proximal promoter , enhancing localized histone H3 - K9 acetylation and thereby stimulating hTERT expression and telomerase activity .
Treatment of these T - cells with 5 - azacytidine resulted in the induction of DR surface antigen expression , the appearance of DR alpha mRNA , and the partial demethylation of the DR alpha DNA sequences .
We will also discuss several patents regarding inhibitors of VEGF action in the present review .
These results may have chemotherapeutic implications for using emodin to target HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing cancer cells .
Some vitamins like beta - carotene , retinoic acid , alpha - tocopheryl succinate , and vitamin D also regulate the expressions of certain oncogenes and cellular genes .
When goldfish erythrophores isolated from the skin by tissue digestion and centrifugation in a Percoll density gradient were transfected in a monolayer - culture with v - Ha - ras or v - src oncogene either singly or in combination with v - myc by means of calcium phosphate - DNA co - precipitation , there appeared a certain number of transformants manifesting a chromatoblast - like profile and tumorous phenotypes as seen in the capability for unlimited growth , and piling - up in a monolayer - culture or colony formation in semi - solid soft agar .
Bilateral central lymphadenectomy was performed in all patients in addition to thyroidectomy .
Additionally , knockdown of p600 reduced transformation of cells expressing both BPV - 1 E6 and E7 , as well as E6 alone , suggesting that the ability of E7 to transformed cells is mediated , at least in part , through its ability to bind p600 .
Fluorescein angiograms were reviewed retrospectively to identify juxtafoveal CNV .
Long - term peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) is limited by morphological changes of the peritoneal membrane .
Repetitive cycles of hypoxia and reoxygenation associated with changes in synovial perfusion are postulated to activate hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha and nuclear factor - kappaB , two key transcription factors that are regulated by changes in cellular oxygenation and cytokine stimulation , and that in turn orchestrate the expression of a spectrum of genes critical to the persistence of synovitis .
We also assessed the effect of C / EBPbeta on COX - 2 expression .
The aims of the present study were to compare , in vitro and in vivo , the antiangiogenic and antitumor activities of metronomic irinotecan ( CPT - 11 ) , oxaliplatin ( L - OHP ) and 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) in colorectal cancer and to investigate the metronomic combination of these drugs .
All treatments resulted in significant changes in vascular volume with time , while only DMBA treatments alone resulted in significant changes in vascular permeability with time .
Co - expression of NRP1 and ( VEGFR - 2 ) KDR on the surface of endothelial cells ( EC ) enhances VEGF165 binding to KDR and EC chemotaxis in response to VEGF165 .
The necessity of Crk in ephrin - B1 - induced membrane ruffling was shown both by the overexpression of dominant negative Crk mutants and by the depletion of Crk by using RNA interference .
[ 13C ] Lactate production from [ 13C ] glucose , with no detectable uptake of [ 13C ] alanine , indicated that energy production in H5 spheroids was primarily via glycolysis .
Convergence of p53 and TGF - beta signaling networks .
Focal adhesion kinase ( pp125FAK or FAK ) is a protein tyrosine kinase which is associated with intracellular signalling cascades which are initiated when the integrin family of cell adhesion molecules engage extracellular matrix molecules .
Transient circulating levels of angioactive molecules and serial high - resolution imaging studies of focal angiogenesis might help .
RESULTS : Insulin increased VEGF mRNA levels in the ganglion , inner nuclear , and RPE cell layers .
Our data demonstrate , for the first time , that IGF1 - R / Akt / Bcl - x ( L ) pathway may contribute to a more aggressive malignant phenotype , in a subset of colorectal cancers .
Suppressing PTTG expression by siRNA decreased cell motility in both PTTG - HA / EC9706 and KYSE150 cells .
Formation of apoptotic bodies was preceded by lowering of intracellular polyamines , particularly putrescine , and both dose - and time - dependent inhibitory and activation effect by ACA on ornithine decarboxylase ( ODC ) and spermidine / spermine N ( 1 ) - acetyltransferase ( SSAT ) , respectively .
RESULTS : The overall incidence of BRAF mutation ( 89 / 183 , 49 % ) was very similar to other large studies of Caucasian populations .
On the other hand , hypermethylation of CpG islands in the final sigma gene was detected in 91 % ( 75 / 82 ) of breast tumors and was associated with lack of gene expression .
A reduction in alpha - catenin expression and p53 overexpression correlated to lymph node metastases , respectively .
In EC109 cells , growth arrest was by induction of apoptosis , associated with downregulation of Bcl - 2 , but not Bax .
The neural stem cell fate determinant TLX promotes tumorigenesis and genesis of cells resembling glioma stem cells .
The non - invasive human melanoma cell line , IF6 , which does not express uPA , provided further confirmation of PAI - 1 and uPA ' s role as , upon transfection with uPA , this cell line attained an invasive phenotype , which was again attenuated by MAI - 12 .
Other enzymes , in anaerobic and aerobic glycolysis , which were blocked include hexokinase , phosphofructokinase , succinic and alpha - ketoglutarate dehydrogenases , as well as States 3 and 4 of oxidative phosphorylation .
In summary , the angiogenic property of oral cancer cells is mediated by many factors in addition to VEGF and the functional status of p53 .
A positive correlation between blood vessel volume and bone volume density was found in the younger new - bone area but not in the oldest new - bone area .
Here , we expressed the catalytic domain of VEGFR - 2 as a soluble active kinase using Bac - to - Bac expression system , and investigated correlations between VEGFR - 2 activity and enzyme concentration , ATP concentration , substrate concentration and divalent cation type .
Endothelial cell migration is an essential step in vasculogenesis and angiogenesis , in which receptor tyrosine kinases play a pivotal role .
When stably over - expressed in maximal transformed SV - 52 cells , CK1delta mutants induced reversion to a minimal transformed phenotype by dominant - negative interference with endogenous wtCK1delta .
All the grafts older than three weeks had complete endothelialization and maintained their patency .
Endothelial cell staining was heterogeneous and varied in different regions .
Pharmacological inhibition of the proteasome prevents the degradation of Hck correlating with an increase in the phosphotyrosine levels within the cells .
Estimation of lectin binding site and pattern was useful to evaluate the malignant potential of cell proliferation .
Circular dichroism and nuclear magnetic resonance analyses indicate that this peptide forms a stable extended structure in solution , presumably beta - sheet structure and is most likely existing as a dimer .
BMECs transfected with SV40T ( BMSVTs ) had an extended lifespan , but eventually succumbed to crisis .
CONCLUSION : Myofibroblasts represent an important prognostic factor for invasive growth that is translated into a poor clinical prognosis for patients with invasive breast cancer .
Two distraction rates ( 0 . 5 and 1 mm / day ) were compared and for each group three patients were analyzed .
Here we studied the effects of cell morphology on the migration of bovine aortic ECs by culturing cells on micropatterned strips of collagen matrix ( 60 - , 30 - , and 15 - microm wide ) .
Multivariate analysis showed that cooccurrence of reduced expression of alpha - catenin and overexpression of p53 was an independent factor indicating lymph node metastases .
It focuses on the role of IL - 18 modulation in tumours , infections and autoimmune and inflammatory diseases .
No effective medical therapies have been developed sofar to enhance blood flow in the legs of patients with peripheral arterial disease ( PAD ) .
p53 mutation heterogeneity in cancer .
The purpose of this study was to investigate the expression and significance of 14 - 3 - 3zeta and beta - catenin in stage I non - small - cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) .
Papilloma formation was observed in both the DMBA - TPA - and DMBA - Cum - OOH - exposed animals , whereas skin carcinomas were found only in the DMBA - Cum - OOH - treated mice .
RESULTS : Vandetanib treatment had no effect on tumor cell clonogenic cell survival in vitro but doses > or = 10 nM significantly reduced endothelial cell migration .
Compared to cRGDyK and HL , cRGD - HL has high binding affinity to purified alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) integrin .
Cell - matrix adhesion assay was used to study the adhesive ability of CNE1 - GL cells .
The simian virus 40 ( SV40 ) large tumor ( T ) antigen is sufficient to transform cells in cultures and induce tumors in experimental animals .
Brk1 is required for cell proliferation and cell transformation by oncogenes .
Most of the studies focusing on the mechanisms of p53 activity have been performed in cultured cells upon treatment with well - established p53 - activating inputs , such as high doses of radiations , DNA - damaging drugs and activated oncogenes .
On the contrary , the constitutive activation of Nrf2 due to mutations in the keap1 gene is characteristically observed in lung cancer cells , suggesting that induced expression of Nrf2 target genes favors the prevalence of cancer cells .
The UFO locus is evolutionarily conserved between vertebrate species .
Transfection with hTERT alone , led to the immortalization of two out of three cultures of bone marrow - derived ECs ( BMECs ) .
Metabolic thresholds were derived at tumor glucose utilization values of 70 . 6 + / - 8 . 3 mumol / 100 g / min for reduced protein synthesis , of 55 . 0 + / - 0 . 2 mumol / 100 g / min for the decrease in glucose content , and 34 . 7 + / - 4 . 7 mumol / 100 g / min for decline in ATP content .
In addition , TEL inhibited the invasiveness of Ras - transformed cells in vitro and in vivo .
The findings are discussed in relation to previous morphologic studies , reports of in vitro mast - cell - mediated tumor cytotoxicity , and the role of mast cells in angiogenesis and connective tissue proliferation .
Targeting glucose consumption and autophagy in myeloma with the novel nucleoside analogue 8 - aminoadenosine .
Thus , inhibition of either ERK or Sp1 suppressed M - CSF - induced VEGF at the mRNA and protein level .
Heparin preparations from a variety of sources stimulated capillary endothelial cell migration to the same degree but did not stimulate migration of several other cell types .
The rapid cleavage of Tie1 is followed by a transcriptional down - regulation in response to shear stress .
A prefabricated composite fat flap consisting of muscle woven into an anatomically distinct fat pad was studied in a rabbit model .
Cediranib may , therefore , be an effective means of preventing tumor progression , not only by inhibiting VEGFR - 2 activity and angiogenesis , but also by concomitantly inhibiting VEGFR - 3 activity and lymphangiogenesis .
It is hypothesized that the NO derived from inducible NOS ( iNOS ) may promote survival of ischemic tissue through angiogenesis .
Our results suggest that blood flow limits glucose supply to tumor tissue at much higher flow rates than in normal brain which , in turn , is associated with a decrease in tumor glucose utilization .
RESULTS : Of the 13 treated patients , 10 ( 77 % ) had a radiologically demonstrated partial response and 3 ( 23 % ) had stable disease .
Maintained utilization of these substrates , in a substrate - deficient environment , suggests increased sensitivities to metabolic signals , which may play a role in the development of metabolic diseases in later adult life .
In this review article , many functions of homeobox genes both at the early stem cell level as well as at the later stages of hematopoietic differentiation , and the leukemogenic effect of altered homeobox genes are discussed .
Four selected cell hybrids expressed the human transforming gene product p21 at levels of 10 to 30 % compared to 100 % in the transformed parental cells .
We found that the severity of vascular abnormalities correlated positively with the severity of histologic epithelial lesions ; this finding is consistent with colposcopic results .
Staining was effected by the standard avidin - biotin horseradish peroxidase system .
Brn - 3a , a member of the POU gene family ( so - called because of the similarity with the group of transcription factors Pit , Oct , and Unc ) , was found in neuronal cells engaged in the transcription activity of the p1 and p2 promoters of the most powerful antiapoptotic gene , namely , Bcl - 2 .
RESULTS : Bevacizumab treatment was followed by reductions in retinal hemorrhage , exudation , and edema .
However , the function of bFGF in parenchymal cells remains to be determined .
Insulin - like growth factor - I receptor - mediated vasculogenesis / angiogenesis in human lung development .
Thyrotropin receptor : a role for thyroid tumourigenesis ?
The 5T4 antigen is defined by a monoclonal antibody ( MAb ) specific for human trophoblast .
Overexpression of JNK1 or p38 was sufficient to induce HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression .
In this study , the expression of the cadherin - catenin complex and p53 was studied in early gastric cancer .
Pretreatment of cells with caffeine significantly reduces adenosine - induced VEGF promoter activity and VEGF and IL - 8 expression .
We propose that cytolytic effector and related proteins produced by putative NK and some CD8 + CD56 + postthymic T - cell lymphomas , probably in conjunction with other mechanisms , may effect massive tumor cell apoptosis .
Hamsters were treated with either radiation , DMBA , radiation + DMBA , or no treatment .
A Whipple procedure led to a complete resolution of these symptoms and a return of an elevated stomatostatin level to normal .
Increased TLX expression was observed in a number of glioma cells and glioma stem cells , and correlated with poor survival of patients with gliomas .
None of the inhibitors had any effect on the weight of the superovulated ovaries or on the synthesis of progesterone by cultured luteal cells .
Therapeutic angiogenesis is the biological agents or bioactive material to stimulate the growth of new blood vessels .
Further , we implemented a noninvasive molecular imaging technique to facilitate the assessment of the metastatic process .
The current results may have an impact on the effectiveness of clinical immunotherapeutic treatment protocols , because immune effector cells may not be able to enter tumor tissue .
Several enzyme systems have been implicated in the metastatic process , but the metalloproteinases ( MPs ) appear to be the major group involved in most instances of neoplastic invasion .
2 - DG did not induce a significant cell cycle delay in monolayers , while a transient G ( 2 ) delay was apparent in spheroids .
There was no significant association between an increased risk of cervical cancer and polymorphisms of the death pathway genes FAS and FASL .
Assessment of starved HUVECs at 14 days demonstrated sixfold more cells for AdCMV . VEGF165 - infected HUVECs ( 20 pfu per cell ) than for either infected or uninfected control cells .
RESULTS : 2ME2 exhibited antiproliferative and cytotoxic effects in a panel of five head and neck squamous cell carcinoma cell lines in the 0 . 5 to 10 micromol / L range , including induction of G2 - M blockade , caspase - 3 / 7 activation , and apoptosis at 48 hours .
Four out of seven control grafts were patent with endothelial cell lining at six months , but three were occluded and one of the four grafts was still covered with a thrombus layer .
Altogether , these results suggest a new approach to promote angiogenesis by controlling Notch signaling , and may provide new options to treat patients with diseases that diminish angiogenic responsiveness .
SUMMARY : Staging of colorectal cancer occurs after surgery and is based on the extent of disease invasiveness and dissemination .
The mice were treated by intratumoral injection of 2 x 10 ( 9 ) pfu Ad - mEndostatin .
This growth factor system exerts multiple physiologic effects on the vasculature through both endocrine and autocrine / paracrine mechanisms .
Gastric cancer metastasized when ITCs were observed in the presence of VEGFR - 1 .
Sanguinarine induces apoptosis of human osteosarcoma cells through the extrinsic and intrinsic pathways .
One of the angiostatin isoforms , that is , angiostatin 4 . 5 ( AS4 . 5 ) , consisting of plasminogen kringle 1 to 4 and a most part of kringle 5 , is produced by autoproteolysis and present in human plasma .
HSP27 expression was positive staining ( + ) in 20 ( 50 % ) , weak or negative staining ( - ) in 20 ( 50 % ) of total 40 cases .
TGFbeta1 , back to the future : revisiting its role as a transforming growth factor .
In addition , activation of transforming growth factor beta ( TGF - beta ) by TSP - 1 plays a crucial role in the regulation of tumor progression .
This study determines the relationship between preoperative serum sVAP - 1 levels and clinicopathological features and prognosis in gastric cancer .
Genes most significantly represented in this program are those with roles in cell growth and proliferation > protein synthesis > gene expression > cell death > cell cycle .
Hepatectomy was performed , and the patient is alive and free of disease 1 year postsurgery .
These results strongly suggest that Dss1 is a TPA - inducible gene that may play an important role in the early stages of skin carcinogenesis .
Commonality exists in the processes involved in vasculature development between tissues whether healthy or diseased .
Cancer metastasis : negative regulation by an invasion - suppressor complex .
The area covered by spread EC was dramatically enlarged , accompanied by an increase in focal contacts and altered organization of actin filaments .
Our results showed that HeLa cells demonstrated the highest sensitivity to paclitaxel , whereas CaSki cells showed the lowest .
Human K562 cells , which express PHGPX , but not GPX , were also more sensitive to t - BuOOH in the Se - deficient ( K . Se ( - ) ) than Se - satisfied ( K . Se ( + ) ) condition .
Dietary CLA decreased serum levels of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and whole mammary gland levels of VEGF and its receptor Flk - 1 .
Hemostasis and mechanism of action of selective antimetastatic drugs in mice bearing Lewis lung carcinoma .
To test this hypothesis , we investigated the effect of iNOS deficiency ( by L - NIL ) on angiogenesis in a hindlimb ischemia model .
Further investigations of this pathway with regard to preventing peritoneal fibrosis should be performed to maintain the integrity of the peritoneal membrane in peritoneal dialysis patients .
Zero to 10 daily fractions of electron - beam radiation ( 300 cGy each ) were delivered to the implant in the right groin , while the implant in the left groin served as a nonirradiated internal control .
Expression of two type II - like tumor hexokinase RNA transcripts in cancer cell lines .
Homeobox genes in hematopoiesis and leukemogenesis .
Loss of opticin expression by this tissue is associated with and could contribute towards neoplastic transformation .
In extracts of growing and stationary Swiss 3T3 cells , the total amount of protein kinase C activity was similar , indicating that growth state does not alter the level of enzyme in the cell .
RESULTS : In comparison with controls , intratumoral injection of Ad - mEndostatin significantly inhibited the tumor growth and metastasis , and prolonged the survival rate of mice ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
Nitric oxide ( NO ) is an important molecule in regulating tumour blood flow and stimulating tumour angiogenesis .
Proliferative diabetic retinopathy is associated with a low level of the natural ocular anti - angiogenic agent pigment epithelium - derived factor ( PEDF ) in aqueous humor .
PTEN promoter hypermethylation is a major epigenetic silencing mechanism leading to activation of angiogenesis in tumors .
The cell death pathway initiated by survivin targeting was mapped with respect to cytochrome c release , changes in mitochondrial transmembrane potential , and apoptosome requirements using mouse embryonic fibroblasts deficient in Apaf - 1 or caspase - 9 .
Cell invasion and apoptosis assays were also performed .
These transcripts were localized in stromal fibroblasts adjacent to the neoplastic foci .
Metastatic spread of malignant tumor appears to correlate with activation of the fibrolytic system .
Moreover , we show that subjecting transfected hepatoma cells to hypoxic conditions activates the type II hexokinase promoter almost 3 - fold , a value that approaches 7 - fold in the presence of glucose .
Interleukin - 2 administration was followed by a significant increase in total lymphocytes , CD4 + , CD8 + , CD16 + 56 + ( NK ) cells , IL - 6 , IL - 12 , and CRP ( from P < 0 . 04 to P < 0 . 000 ) but no change in IL - 10 and TGFbeta1 during clinical benefit .
To show that transcriptional activation of cyclin D1 is causally involved in the generation of B - cell neoplasia we have generated transgenic mice that carry a cyclin D1 gene under the transcriptional control of the E mu element .
The finding of differential SSTR expression raises the potential for SSTR expression to be evaluated as a marker of response to somatostatin analogs .
Groups 3 and 4 were vitamin E and untreated controls .
CONCLUSION : Quantitative assessment is more sensitive as a measure of cellular protein content as compared with standard optical density measurements .
RESULTS : Both SAT and VAT expressed angiogenic factors without significant difference for vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression .
The deficiency in the p53 - mediated regulation of glycolysis and mitochondrial respiration greatly accounts for the deficient respiration of the predominance of aerobic glycolysis in cancer cells ( the Warburg effect ) , while the deficiency in the p53 - modulated antioxidant defense mechanisms contributes to mutagenesis and additionally boosts the carcinogenesis process .
In tumor studies , P18 was more effective in blocking the angiogenesis and growth of the prostate cancer than parental 34 - mer ; in the renal cell carcinoma , P18 strongly decreased angiogenesis and halted the progression of established tumors .
Our results indicate that TLX is involved in glioma stem cell genesis and represents a potential therapeutic target for this type of malignancy .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : To evaluate the antiangiogenic activity of EPOX , we did cell viability , cell cycle , tube formation assay in vitro , and Matrigel plug assay in vivo .
FGFR1 and FGFR2 were present on explants .
Overexpression of AP - 2A resulted in a decreased proliferation rate and inhibitin of colony formation .
Besides the wealth of data elucidating the functional roles of Pten , recent studies suggest a diagnostic significance of PTEN gene alterations as a molecular marker for poor prognosis in anaplastic astrocytomas and anaplastic oligodendrogliomas .
The Erbb2 receptor is activated by UV irradiation , the primary cause of non - melanoma skin cancer .
Anti - endosialin was capable of preventing pericyte tube formation in culture and inhibited migration .
In this article we have focused on a role of IL - 6 as a prognostic factor in several malignancies such as colorectal cancer , breast cancer , gastric cancer and pancreatic cancer .
In the high - level group the authors found typical DNA ladder eletrophoresis stripe .
In this review , the role of TSH - R gene alterations in benign and malignant thyroid neoplasia is examined .
METHODS AND RESULTS : Purified B - CLL cells from 15 patients were cultured either alone or with Sim at concentrations of 10 , 50 , and 100 microM .
Expression of thymidylate synthase and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase in primary oral squamous cell carcinoma and corresponding metastases in cervical lymph nodes : association with the metastasis suppressor CD82 .
This protein has been shown to be a protein kinase that phosphorylates on tyrosine residues .
BPDE treatment caused induction of both AP - 1 and NF - kappaB activity as determined by luciferase reporter assay and only NF - kappaB induction in response to BPDE was significantly attenuated by TSC phenolic fraction whereas AP - 1 induction remains unaltered .
RESULTS : We detected only wild - type nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 mRNA .
It is proposed that the switch from tumor suppressor to oncogene reflects genetic or epigenetic alterations in signaling pathways in tumor cells that alter the readout from the TGFbeta1 pathway .
The inhibition of tumor growth and changes of survival were recorded and the microvessel density ( MVD ) was determined by histochemical stainingwith CD31 and CD105 antibodies .
As such , sustained nuclear FOXO3a expression in breast cancer may culminate in cancer progression and the development of an aggressive phenotype similar to that observed in cytotoxic chemotherapy resistant breast cancer cell models .
In 1983 , Harold Dvorak and his colleagues were the first to show that tumor cells secreted vascular permeability factor ( VPF ) and that a blocking antibody to VPF could prevent the edema and fluid accumulation that is characteristic of human cancers .
Furthermore , it was showed that GSH depletion induced by MOG rendered some leukemia cell lines more sensitive to arsenic trioxide ( As2O3 ) , doxorubicin or cisplatin .
Molecular and cell - physiological analyses have improved the understanding of tumour biology and provide the opportunity for new therapeutic approaches .
IGF - 1 - transfected cells demonstrated greater cell proliferation , stimulated angiogenesis , and decreased caspase - 3 activity after simulated ischemia and reperfusion ( P less than 0 . 05 for all groups compared with vector or cell controls ) .
This ultimately deprives VEGF receptors of an essential molecule required for promoting the disruption of endothelial cell - cell contacts and paracellular permeability .
Infection of human or murine cells with murine leukemia viruses rapidly increases the expression of a number of genes that belong to the immunoglobulin superfamily and are involved in T - lymphocyte activation , including the class I major histocompatibility complex antigens .
On the other hand , when cells were pre - incubated in glucose - supplemented medium , oxygen consumption was affected only when succinate was used as the oxidizable substrate .
Here , we established lymph node metastasis models by injecting overexpressing VEGF - D Lewis lung carcinoma cells into C57BL / 6 mice to explore the effect of honokiol on tumor - associated lymphangiogenesis and related lymph node metastasis .
The absence of iritis , neovascularization , and necrotizing keratitis in the corneas of the immunized animals was particularly striking .
Convenience of administration , tolerability , and patient factors not necessarily age may be considerations in decisions about adjuvant therapy after resection .
Nevertheless , patients who achieved complete remission ( CR ) had a significantly lower median PE level compared to those who did not .
Whereas agents seem promising in the test tube , clinical trials often fail due to unfavorable pharmacokinetics , poor delivery , low local concentrations , and limited accumulation in the target cell .
Malignant cells often display defects in autophagy , an evolutionarily conserved pathway for degrading long - lived proteins and cytoplasmic organelles .
Inducible nitric oxide synthase modulates angiogenesis in ischemic hindlimb of rat .
Importantly , PTHrP - specific neutralizing antibodies slowed the progression and metastasis of human breast cancer xenografts .
We undertook this study to test the hypothesis that Fas - FasL - mediated apoptosis plays a role in IL - 12 - induced tumor regression .
1 - Tetradecylpyrrolidine N - oxide ( TPNO ) , one of the most active compounds , immediately after addition to the suspension of Ehrlich cells in an ice bath , decreased the level of ATP to the same extent over the whole concentration range .
These RNAs were not detected by Northern ( RNA ) hybridization in productively infected chicken embryo fibroblasts 48 h postinfection ; however , they were apparent 140 h postinfection .
This review summarizes the current state of the art concerning the involvement of aberrant Pten function in the development of different biologic features of malignant gliomas , such as loss of cell - cycle control and uncontrolled cell proliferation , escape from apoptosis , brain invasion , and aberrant neoangiogenesis .
This study indicates that the simultaneous presence of ITC and VEGFR - 1 expression at premetastatic sites is clinically significant for disease progression .
LeTx also substantially inhibited the extracellular release of angioproliferative factors including vascular endothelial growth factor , interleukin - 8 , and basic fibroblast growth factor .
DESIGN : Differentially expressed proteins discovered between the two cell lines were identified by mass spectrometry .
Most anti - angiogenic therapies for malignant gliomas are in Phase I / II trials and only modest efficacies are reported for monotherapies .
Each was legally blind before treatment ( n = 1 ) , experienced little to no subjective improvement ( n = 2 ) , or was poorly compliant ( n = 2 ) .
In addition , p21 - or p16 - mediated growth arrest did not protect glioma cells from E2F - 1 - mediated apoptosis .
When 10 ( 5 ) cells were injected i . v . , median colony value was 55 and 20 in higher expressor vs . lower expressor respectively ( p less than 0 . 005 ) .
Very little is yet known about the precise relationship of p53 to malignant transformation .
METHODS : The authors evaluated plasma endostatin ( PE ) levels using an enzyme linked immunoassay in 71 patients with acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) and 43 patients with myelodysplastic syndrome ( MDS ) , and correlated PE with various clinical parameters .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is a major regulator of angiogenesis that binds to tyrosine kinase receptors Flt - 1 and KDR .
These cells , but not control cells , showed altered growth properties and anchorage - independent growth in soft agar .
Moreover , U - 995 ( 30 micrograms / ml ) markedly prevented collagenase - induced collagenolysis .
Angiopoietin / tie - 2 as mediators of angiogenesis : a role in congestive heart failure ?
Hypothesis : Induced angiogenesis after surgery in premenopausal node - positive breast cancer patients is a major underlying reason why adjuvant chemotherapy works particularly well for those patients .
We suggest that the rarity of observed BRCA1 mutations in sporadic breast and ovarian cancer is due to the greater likelihood of BRCA1 inactivation by non - mutational mechanisms such as methylation .
The tumor mass thus formed was an average 5 . 8 - fold as large as control A431 tumors that were grown without F - 2 cells .
Combination of ATX expression with ras transformation produced cells with greatly amplified tumorigenesis and metastatic potential compared to ras - transformed controls .
The median number of therapies applied , including initial surgery , was 5 ( range 3 - 7 therapies ) .
These two somewhat diametrically opposed roles will be discussed in light of new data emerging from various fields which converge on perlecan as a key regulator of cell growth and angiogenesis .
These models may have clinically relevant implications , particularly for the tailoring of therapeutic strategies targeting telomerase .
Identification of the putative transforming protein of the human T - cell leukemia viruses HTLV - I and HTLV - II .
In contrast , the conditioned media induce elevated levels of proapoptotic mediators in the Chang hepatocytes .
Leukemic K562 , U937 and HL60 cells expressed Glut - 1 transporter protein .
These aspects of OPN biology are important in tumorigenesis .
Syndecan - 1 is a cell surface proteoglycan that has been implicated in a number of cellular functions including cell - cell adhesion , cell - matrix anchorage and growth factor presentation for signalling receptors .
MMP - 2 is involved in the early steps of angiogenesis leading to local dissolution of basement membrane collagen and migration of the activated endothelial cells .
There was also an up - regulation of Bax , which altered the Bax : Bcl - 2 ratio , which may be responsible for mitochondrial depolarization reported to be involved prior to the induction of apoptosis .
Dll4 is one of the Notch ligands that regulates arterial specification and maturation events .
In conclusion , this study identifies new functional properties for CD154 , which are potentially relevant for the growth and dissemination of renal carcinoma cells .
Experimental results and theoretical calculations suggest that in glucose - containing medium the Na + transport increases from 0 . 75 to 1 . 78 pmol / hour per cell .
Mast cells and tumors .
HT - 29 human colorectal cancer xenograft model was used and tumour growth , microvessel density and VEGF quantification were performed in tumours after the administration of metronomic CPT - 11 , L - OHP , 5 - FU and their simultaneous combination .
These results indicated that Hes genes cooperatively regulate intestinal development and homeostasis and raised the possibility that Hes1 is a promising target to induce the differentiation of tumor cells .
In spleen , tyrosinase , TRP - 1 and SV40 Tag were expressed and tyrosinase was enzymatically active .
We further support this hypothesis by providing the first evidence that TnI can act on nonendothelial as well as endothelial cells and by demonstrating that this inhibitory action is specific for the bFGF receptor on the target cells .
We show that ING4 physically interacts with p65 ( RelA ) subunit of nuclear factor NF - kappaB , and that ING4 regulates brain tumour angiogenesis through transcriptional repression of NF - kappaB - responsive genes .
Thus , our results suggest that sustained FOXO3a activation can enhance hyperactivation of the PI3K / Akt pathway .
It has been reported that rhizocalin and its derivates have a chemopreventive and chemotherapeutic effect .
IL - 17F deficient Apc ( Min / + ) mice showed a significant decrease in immune cell infiltration in the lamina propria .
Silencing of monocarboxylate transporters via small interfering ribonucleic acid inhibits glycolysis and induces cell death in malignant glioma : an in vitro study .
The results imply that various different proteins may lead to HCC metastasis together .
Additionally , bolus ( 3h ) doxorubicin incubation led to phosphorylation of p53 at serine 392 , induction of p21 , G2 arrest and increase of proapoptotic protein Bax .
At later stages , branches of radial arteries penetrated the periphery forming an extensive mesh of capillaries on the concave surface .
Overexpression of Evi - 1 increased Pbx1 expression in hematopoietic stem / progenitor cells .
In the present study it was found that incubation of HepG2 cells with a low concentration of 3 - BrPA for a short period ( 150 microM for 30 min ) significantly affected both glycolysis and mitochondrial respiratory functions .
Thus , our results indicate that under appropriate conditions rho genes function as oncogenes and may have a role in the regulation of proliferation in fibroblast cells .
Indeed , we would hypothesize that these angiogenic markers - - especially the angiopoietins - - do not necessarily translate into new vessel formation in congestive heart failure ( CHF ) , but may well reflect disturbances of endothelial integrity in CHF .
p53 and PCNA status do not appear to influence topo I expression , and topo I has no apparent association with the acquisition of a metastatic phenotype .
Our data suggest that KISS1 and MMP - 9 may serve as potential prognostic and therapeutic markers in lung cancer .
The objective of this study was to ascertain whether STX243 is more active in vivo than the clinically relevant drug 2 - methoxyoestradiol ( 2 - MeOE2 ) and the structurally similar compound 2 - MeOE2 - 3 , 17 - O , O - bis - sulphamate ( STX140 ) .
Using MDA - MB - 231 cells , in which FOXO3a activity can be induced by 4 - hydroxytamoxifen , we showed that FOXO3a induction up - regulates PI3K - Akt activity and enhanced doxorubicin resistance .
Expression of epidermal growth factor receptor , transforming growth factor - alpha and Ki - 67 in relationship to malignant transformation of pleomorphic adenoma .
METHODS : NF - kappaB inhibition was achieved by IkappaBalpha super - repressor adenoviral vector and activation was monitored by EMSA and reporter assays .
It is now known that specific types of human papillomaviruses ( HPV ) are the principal etiologic agents for both cervical cancer and its precursors .
Expression of basic fibroblast growth factor in normal human tissues .
The results showed that thrombospondin is expressed in normal prostate but not in prostate tumours in a rat model .
The formation of new blood vessels through the process of angiogenesis is critical in vascular development and homeostasis .
We identify here hADA3 , human homologue of the yeast transcriptional coactivator yADA3 , as a novel E6 - interacting protein and a target of E6 - induced degradation .
These results suggest that T140 analogs have potential use for cancer therapy , and that small molecular CXCR4 antagonists could potentially replace neutralizing antibodies as anti - metastatic agents for breast cancer .
Consistent with this hypothesis , inhibition of Erbb2 in v - ras ( Ha ) transgenic mice before UV exposure resulted in both 56 % fewer skin tumors and tumors that were 70 % smaller .
Emerging metabolic targets in cancer therapy .
hADA3 binds selectively to the high - risk HPV E6 proteins and only to immortalization - competent E6 mutants .
Furthermore , transfection of E - cadherin cDNA into invasive NM - f - ras - TD cells resulted in the upregulation of syndecan - 1 expression in association with decreased invasiveness .
The rats were divided into 4 groups .
Our results showed that MTX administration increased the MDA and MPO activities and collagen content and decreased GSH levels in all tissues , while these alterations were reversed in L - Car - treated group .
However , the exact mechanisms of ARF action yet remain unclear and require further studies by different specialists at both the molecular genetic and other levels of investigation .
TIMP3 may affect two independent downstream targets , vascular endothelial growth factor receptor and p38 MAPK .
Analysis of associations among studied proteins revealed positive correlation between Bcl - xL and Bax in primary tumors ( P < 0 . 03 , r = 0 . 307 ) .
The expression of the transfected oncogenes in this cell line was examined in comparison with the erythrophoroma cells by Western and Northern blot analyses .
These discoveries have dramatically changed the work - up and genetic counseling of patients and families with paragangliomas and / or pheochromocytomas .
In the present study , we applied the alginate implant angiogenesis model in mice with normal ANG II levels , elevated ANG II levels by transgenic overexpression of angiotensinogen ( AOGEN ) , or in AT2 receptor - deficient mice .
Caspase - 3 is essential for procaspase - 9 processing and cisplatin - induced apoptosis of MCF - 7 breast cancer cells .
Adenomatoid tumour of the liver .
KISS1 methylation was associated with low KISS1 transcript expression by quantitative RT - PCR ( P = 0 . 037 ) .
Syndecan - 1 expression in mammary epithelial tumor cells is E - cadherin - dependent .
Similarly , perivascular inflammatory T - cells expressed more antiapoptotic proteins in irreversible PHT ( p less than 0 . 01 ) .
After inhibition of gluconeogenesis , the plasma glucose decreased and the blood lactate increased significantly more in TB than NTB animals .
These data also suggest that folate deficiency may inhibit colorectal carcinogenesis in chronic UC .
Because tumor metastasis requires angiogenesis , we examined whether rk - 2 could inhibit metastases induced by injection of B16F10 melanoma cells into mice .
The effect of wild - type or mutant survivin was investigated on capillary network stability , endothelial cell viability , and caspase activation in vitro and on kinetics of tumor growth and development of angiogenesis in a breast cancer xenograft model in vivo .
In tissues with a normally high metabolic turnover such as skeletal and cardiac muscle , even mild ischemia causes hypoxia , acidosis , and depressed function ( contractility ) and eventually threatens myocyte viability and organ function .
This model will be useful for understanding mechanisms underlying vascular and angiogenic neoplasias , as well as for testing drugs designed to curtail aberrant EC growth .
Finally , in human umbilical cord blood cells , we show that endothelial precursors make up only approximately 1 in 10 ( 7 ) mononuclear cells but are highly enriched in the CD133 + cell population .
Furthermore , we demonstrate that increased vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) - A secretion by tumor cells , as well as activation of VEGF receptor - 2 in bone marrow cells does not alter the mobilization and incorporation of marrow - derived endothelial progenitors into tumor vasculature .
This study was designed to investigate the effect of EBV - LMP1 on related factors of metastasis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line CNE1 .
Thus , genetic loss or inhibition of BRK1 is likely to be protective against tumor development due to proliferation and motility defects in affected cells .
METHODS : LOH of epigenetic microsatellites of PTEN ( D10S541 , D10S583 and D10S1687 ) in advanced gastric cancer was detected by PCR - SSCP .
We also established that doxorubicin treatment induces proliferation arrest and FOXO3a nuclear relocation in sensitive breast cancer cells .
In vitro wound migration and single - cell motility by PECAM - 1 - null endothelial cells were also compromised .
Biomaterials such as Surgisis ( Cook Biotech Incorporated , West Lafayette , IN , USA ) , which are derived from natural ECM , provide the extracellular components necessary to direct the healing response , allow for the proliferation of new , healthy tissue and restore tissue integrity to the damaged site .
This pathway will continue to be a focus of investigation , particularly with respect to targeted experimental chemotherapeutics .
Simultaneous and continuous exposure of HT - 29 and HMVEC - d cells to low concentrations SN - 38 + L - OHP + 5 - FU for 144 h showed a strong antagonism and an unfavorable dose - reduction index .
AIM : Approximately 40 - 60 % of melanomas from Caucasian populations carry activating mutations in the BRAF oncogene , with the most common being the p . Val600Glu ( V600E ) hotspot mutation in exon 15 .
The samples were transferred to Kyushu University Hospital ( Beppu , Japan ) where they were analyzed by quantitative real - time reverse transcription - PCR for three epithelial cell markers , carcinoembryonic antigen , cytokeratin - 19 , and cytokeratin - 7 , as well as VEGFR - 1 .
Osteopontin ( OPN ) is a secreted adhesive glycophosphoprotein expressed by several cell types .
Under serum - starvation conditions , decreased growth rate , slow rounding - up of cells , cell detachment , and formation of apoptotic bodies indicative of anoikis ( detachment - induced apoptosis ) were preceded by significant downregulation of 70 kDa clusterin precursor and upregulation of 45 - 40 kDa isoforms .
Whereas the ligands were increased in stages III and IV , the receptors were upregulated in stage III only .
RESULTS : As regards the association of patients ' prognosis with EGFR staining and Ki - 67 index , a significant increase was observed in patients who died or had residual disease compared with patients who were alive without disease .
The caprine placenta is usually considered to have increased interhemal distance compared with endotheliochorial and hemochorial types : our results suggest that the very extensive development of sinusoids and crypts may compensate for any negative consequences of the placental architecture .
The stromal cells in turn produce factors that nurture the tumor .
Adult mutants became sterile males due to the meiotic arrest of spermatocytes , which then died by apoptosis , followed by neoplastic proliferation of gonad somatic cells that was similar to neoplasia observed in ageing dead end ( dnd ) - knockdown males , which lack germ cells .
Although antibodies to PAI - 1 did not affect the adhesion of HT1080 cells to vitronectin , the antibody to uPA reduced their attachment .
These patients included many who were enrolled in the Epidermolysis Bullosa Registry and others who were referred by their physicians .
The second most prevalent urological malignancy in middle aged and elderly men is bladder cancer , with 90 % of the cases being transitional cell carcinomas .
Surprisingly , when injected into chicken embryos in the presence of helper virus , both viruses induced an erythroleukemia in about half of the animals .
This effect was observed whether the cells had been treated with all - trans - RA in serum - free medium or in medium supplemented with heat - inactivated or acid - treated fetal bovine serum .
Pthrp ablation in the mammary epithelium of the PyMT - MMTV breast cancer mouse model caused a delay in primary tumor initiation , inhibited tumor progression , and reduced metastasis to distal sites .
Thus , supplementation with L - Carnitine as an adjuvant therapy may be promising in alleviating the systemic side - effects of chemotherapeutics .
The proliferative effects of 20 - HETE were markedly inhibited by a VEGF - neutralizing antibody .
Fibroblast growth factor - 2 ( FGF - 2 ) has been reported to play multiple roles in different biological processes during development of the central nervous system ( CNS ) .
Outcomes measures included transcutaneous blood gas levels , histology , total RNA content and analysis of alpha2 ( I ) collagen ( COL - I ) , type IV collagen ( COL - IV ) , alpha1 ( V ) collagen ( COL - V ) , and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression using real - time quantitative PCR .
We hypothesized that an additional direct consequence of FH deficiency is the establishment of a biosynthetic milieu .
TIMP2 and TIMP3 play functional role in LPA - induced invasion as negative regulators .
Ruffling occurs only on the expression of forms of VASP that possess bundling activity and the capacity to bind zyxin / vinculin - derived peptide .
The tumour growth inhibition efficacy , antiangiogenic potential and pharmacokinetics of STX243 were examined using four in vivo models .
RUNX1 DNA - binding mutations and RUNX1 - PRDM16 cryptic fusions in BCR - ABL + leukemias are frequently associated with secondary trisomy 21 and may contribute to clonal evolution and imatinib resistance .
The results revealed that the metastatic tumors in mouse lung were markedly decreased in a dose - dependent manner and acute lung injury induced by B16F10 melanoma metastasis was diminished by systemic rk - 2 treatment .
Conversely , knockdown of endogenous FOXO3a expression reduced PI3K / Akt activity .
p53 hot - spot mutants increase tumor vascularization via ROS - mediated activation of the HIF1 / VEGF - A pathway .
Zebrafish Robo4 rescues both Rho GTPase homeostasis and serum reduced chemotaxis in robo4 knockdown cells .
PURPOSE : We studied retrospectively the interaction between c - erbB2 overexpression and adjuvant tomoxifen in node - negative breast cancer patients enrolled in the Gruppo Universitario Napoletano 1 ( GUN - 1 ) trial .
Therefore , understanding these signaling mechanisms may provide us with novel ways to develop strategies for treating clinical diseases induced by these cytokines .
Proprotein convertases are serine endoproteases implicated in the proteolytic processing of a large variety of regulatory proteins .
Moreover , we showed that combination of E1A gene therapy and SAHA showed high therapeutic efficacy with low toxicity in vivo ovarian and breast xenograft models .
The latent membrane protein LMP1 of Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) is often present in EBV - associated malignancies including nasopharyngeal carcinoma and Hodgkin ' s lymphoma .
The vessels are derived from quiescient vessels within the fat .
The overexpression of Tsg101 resulted in increased phosphorylation of the epidermal growth factor receptor and downstream activation of MAP kinases .
Finally , DNase I footprint analysis with a segment of the promoter containing these elements reveals the binding of several nuclear proteins .
To investigate this possibility , we studied the influence of bovine lactoferrin on Fas - mediated apoptosis with regard to expression of Fas , activation of caspase - 8 and caspase - 3 , and DNA fragmentation in the colon mucosa of AOM - treated rats .
The UFO proto - oncogene maps to human chromosome 19q13 . 1 and is transcribed into two 5 . 0 kb and 3 . 2 kb mRNAs in human bone marrow and human tumor cell lines .
We propose that this novel , central metabolic role is at the core of the addiction for STAT3 shown by so many biologically different tumours .
Similar to tumors expressing dominant - negative TGF - beta type II receptor , histochemical studies revealed less fibrosis and increased angiogenesis in xenografted tumors expressing c - Ski compared to control tumors .
The effects of exogenous DCC and netrin - 1 expression were observed together with the respective expression vector transfection .
Low transcript expression alone ( P = 0 . 003 ) or combined with methylation ( P = 0 . 019 ) was associated with poor disease - specific survival ( n = 205 ) .
Insulin treatment also increased VEGF protein levels in conditioned RPE cell media in a dose - dependent manner with a median effective concentration of 5 nM .
Effect of U - 995 , a potent shark cartilage - derived angiogenesis inhibitor , on anti - angiogenesis and anti - tumor activities .
Furthermore , we show that VEGF - A stimulation of hemopoietic cells does not significantly alter this process .
While TSP - 2 deficiency did not affect tumor differentiation or proliferation , tumor cell apoptosis was significantly reduced .
The excessive production of ROS can damage protein , lipids , nucleic acids , and matrix components .
PURPOSE : Spironolactone has recently been shown to have suppressive effects on several immunoactive and proinflammatory cytokines .
Expression of TSP - 1 is up - regulated by the tumor suppressor gene , p53 , and down - regulated by oncogenes such as Myc and Ras .
In addition , the endostatin vector treatment completely prevented the formation of pulmonary micrometastases in Lewis lung carcinoma ( P = 0 . 0001 ) .
At other times , both the metastases and the primary tumor may spontaneously regress without treatment .
Acquired molecular abnormalities ( mutations or chromosomal translocations ) of the RUNX1 transcription factor gene are frequent in acute myeloblastic leukemias ( AMLs ) and in therapy - related myelodysplastic syndromes , but rarely in acute lymphoblastic leukemias ( ALLs ) and chronic myelogenous leukemias ( CMLs ) .
CONCLUSIONS : These results suggest that , despite correlation of nm23 - H1 allelic deletions with colon cancers associated with poor prognosis , nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 alleles do not directly mediate metastasis suppression in colon carcinoma .
Moreover , the overexpression of IGF1 - R in these cells was associated with IGF1 - R - induced activation of Akt and up - regulation of the antiapoptotic protein Bcl - x ( L ) .
These findings suggest a novel mechanism of retrovirus - induced activation of cellular gene expression , potentially contributing to leukemogenesis .
In patients who received Pancreaticoduodenectomy , Whipple ' s operation , the level of fibrinogen in the group with local invasiveness was significantly higher than in the group without invasiveness .
14 diabetics with chronic nonhealing wounds which did not respond to treatment for at least 3 months were treated by HBO .
More apoptotic tumor cells were seen under the transmission electron microscope .
Consistently , it was found that MOG rapidly decreased the intracellular glutathione ( GSH ) content in a dose - dependent manner and the significance of GSH depletion in MOG - induced apoptosis was further supported by the protective effects of tert - butylhydroquinone ( tBHQ ) and the facilitative effects of DL - buthionine ( S , R ) - sulfoximine ( BSO ) .
This inhibition was blocked by the neutralizing anti - TGF - beta 2G7 antibody but not by a nonspecific IgG2 .
The p16 / Rb / E2F pathway is the most frequent target of genetic alterations in gliomas , and therefore constitutes a suitable target for gene therapy strategies .
The role of hypoxia in 2 - butoxyethanol - induced hemangiosarcoma .
METHODS : This review outlines and compares the latest development of these strategies , with emphasis on aflibercept , a novel decoy fusion protein of domain 2 of VEGFR - 1 and domain 3 of VEGFR - 2 with the Fc fragment of IgG1 .
To address this question , we used the proteomic approach of tandem affinity purification to identify cellular proteins that are in complex with E7 , and identified the 600 - kDa protein , p600 , as a binding partner of E7 .
One year after radiotherapy final median VA was 20 / 400 in both groups .
Heart rate decreased by 32 % for 20 to 40 minutes after injection and was chronically reduced by 10 % , 14 % , and 18 . 5 % after 1 , 2 , and 3 weeks of treatment , respectively .
VDAs can be divided into biologics , such as ligand - based , and small - molecule agents ; this second group includes small - molecule VDAs like flavonoids , such as 5 , 6 - dimethylxanthenone - 4 - acetic acid ( DMXAA ) , and microtubule - destabilizing agents .
Morphogenesis of embryonic CNS vessels .
These findings indicated that DATS inhibits tumor growth in an allograft animal model .
A specific histone deacetylase ( HDAc ) inhibitor , trichostatin A ( TSA ) , alleviates Evi - 1 - mediated repression of TGF - beta signaling , suggesting that HDAc is involved in transcriptional repression by Evi - 1 .
We reported earlier on the oncogenic properties of Grm1 by demonstrating that stable Grm1 - mouse - melanocytic clones proliferate in the absence of growth supplement and anchorage in vitro .
The appearance of lipid - bloated subretinal MCs was drusen - like on funduscopy of senescent mice , and CX3CR1 - dependent MC accumulation was associated with an exacerbation of experimental CNV .
These results suggest that L - Car , possibly via its free radical scavenging and antioxidant properties , ameliorates MTX - induced oxidative organ injury and inhibits leukocyte apoptosis .
METHODS : We quantified expression of MCT isoforms in human glioblastoma multiforme and glioma - derived cells lines by Western blot analysis .
We used a series of cell clones from a human teratocarcinoma cell line , PA - 1 , to study the effect of transformation by an activated N - ras oncogene on the expression of genes involved in retinoic acid ( RA ) - induced differentiation and growth regulation .
Three patients ( 14 % ) regained 2 or more lines of visual acuity .
The lead oxide group revealed extensive growth of blood vessels from the latissimus graft into the experimental fat pad .
TSC2 and PTEN are two key inhibitors of the Akt / mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) pathway and the specific inhibition of mTOR with rapamycin or RAD001 inhibited cell proliferation of PET cell lines .
RESULTS : The percentage of patients being bone metastases free at 12 mo was 60 % in the zoledronic acid and 10 % in the control group ( p less than 0 . 0005 ) , while the percentages at 18 mo were 20 % and 5 % respectively ( p = 0 . 0002 ) .
Agents that inhibit Hsp90 function hold significant promise in cancer therapy .
Tumors of the retinal pigment epithelium metastasize to inguinal lymph nodes and spleen in tyrosinase - related protein 1 / SV40 T antigen transgenic mice .
None of the polymorphisms were associated with risk of advanced stage or histologic subtype of cervical cancer .
Finally , sections of the control and experimental flaps were analyzed histologically .
Metabolic regulation by p53 .
Vimentin was expressed preferentially in tumor cells of high - grade ductal breast carcinomas ( 15 of 28 histologic grade 3 vs . 0 of 40 grades 1 and 2 ) .
However , very little is known about the function of RASSF1C both in normal and transformed cells .
Growth of both histologic types of gene - modified tumor cells in severe combined immunodeficiency ( SCID ) mice was significantly restricted when compared with controls .
The methylation status was correlated to the clinical manifestations and to PTEN expression , which was analyzed by both Western blot and immunohistochemistry .
The kinase reactions showed preference for ATP and MgCl2 instead of GTP or MnCl2 .
We sought to test whether p53 could behave in a manner similar to known genes in a biological test system , and we demonstrate here that p53 can cooperate with the activated Ha - ras oncogene to transform normal embryonic cells .
With the discovery that TGFbeta1 was a potent growth inhibitor of epithelial cells , and the identification of inactivating mutations within the TGFbeta1 signaling pathway in cancers it became clear that TGFbeta1 signaling is a tumor suppressor pathway for early stages of cancer .
Mitochondrial apoptosis and FAK signaling disruption by a novel histone deacetylase inhibitor , HTPB , in antitumor and antimetastatic mouse models .
1 , 4 - phenylenebis ( methylene ) selenocyanate , but not selenomethionine , inhibits androgen receptor and Akt signaling in human prostate cancer cells .
These studies have led to a hypothesis that the supplemental intake of these vitamins may reduce the risk of cancer .
Effect of ROS on angiogenesis in tumors expressing hot - spot p53 mutants was correlated with their ability to increase a content of HIF1 transcriptional factor responsible for up - regulation of VEGF - A mRNAs .
Transcriptional activity of HIF - 1 ( hypoxia - inducible factor - 1 ) has been reported to be up - regulated in solid tumors after ionizing radiation ; however , the molecular mechanism underlying the response remains to be elucidated .
The 3 - year disease - free survival ( DFS ) and overall survival ( OS ) of patients with tumors expressing different levels of COUP - TFII were evaluated by the Kaplan - Meier method .
In conclusion , HAH - cortisol represents the prototype of a new class of angiogenesis inhibitors for the treatment of cancer and other angiogenic diseases .
We also show that VEGFR1 + cells express VLA - 4 ( also known as integrin alpha4beta1 ) , and that tumour - specific growth factors upregulate fibronectin - - a VLA - 4 ligand - - in resident fibroblasts , providing a permissive niche for incoming tumour cells .
Interleukin - 6 ( IL - 6 ) is proinflammatory cytokine that produces multifunctional effects .
We show that restoration of FOXO3a in FOXO3a - deficient LAC cells increases sensitivity to apoptosis caused by a DNA - damaging intermediate of NNK .
These results suggest that , in some immortalized and transformed cells , blocking the cellular signal transduction might trigger the induction of apoptosis .
Restoration occurred in the presence of a protein synthesis inhibitor but not after a transcriptional block , indicating that c - myc is a direct , transcriptionally regulated target of c - Myb .
These studies have led to the hypothesis that increased consumption of glucose in metastatic lesions is not used for substantial energy production via Embden - Meyerhoff glycolysis , but rather for production of acid , which gives the cancer cells a competitive advantage for invasion .
We hypothesized that 1 ) MCT expression in malignant tumors may differ from normal tissue in quantity , isoform , or both ; and 2 ) silencing MCT expression would induce intracellular acidification , resulting in decreased proliferation and / or increased cell death .
Importantly , the addition of a neutralizing VEGF antibody abolished M - CSF - induced blood vessel formation .
Combination therapy targets both lymphocytes and macrophages , and is more effective in reducing tumor than either therapy alone .
As a result , cells are protected from apoptosis and senescence while becoming highly sensitive to glucose deprivation .
The p53 gene is inactivated in about 50 % of human cancers and the p53 protein is an essential component of the cell response induced by genotoxic stresses such as those generated by radiotherapy or chemotherapy .
Angiogenesis , a multi - step process which involves endothelial cell proliferation , adhesion , migration , and basement membrane ( BM ) degradation , is essential for tumor metastasis .
High expression of VEGF correlated with a shorter overall survival ( log rank , p = 0 . 042 ) .
In the current report , we tested the sensitivity of the c - myc - overexpressing cells ( Rat 6 / c - myc ) to two additional chemicals : 5 - azacytidine and MnSO4 .
Our data may have implications for the development of novel regimens for diabetic retinopathy .
The relationship between TS and DPD expression and clinicopathological data was analyzed .
To study tumor related angiogenesis a vascular window model was used to monitor tumor vascularity .
Taken together , our data indicate that in VHL disease , therapy directed at inhibition of constitutively expressed VEGF induction of angiogenesis by VHL tumors may constitute an effective medical treatment .
S - 100beta is also an independent prognostic marker .
31P MR spectra showed that phosphocreatine was present in H5 spheroids but not in H4 spheroids or tumors .
CONTEXT : Nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( NPC ) , common in southern China and North Africa , has a complex etiology involving interplay between viral , environmental , and hereditary factors and is almost constantly associated with the Epstein - Barr virus .
These results suggest that apoptosis caused by elevated expression of Fas is involved in chemoprevention by lactoferrin of colon carcinogenesis .
Treatment with tunicamycin produced a 40 - 50 % inhibition of 2 - deoxyglucose uptake and this was associated with a 2 - 2 . 5 - fold decrease in transporter affinity for glucose ( Km ) without a change in Vmax .
Met amplification and tumor progression in Cdkn2a - deficient melanocytes .
We have previously reported in established breast lines that HIF - 1alpha levels in the presence of oxygen leads to the Warburg effect .
CONCLUSION : Loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 appears to play a role in both EOGC and conventional gastric carcinogenesis , and c - myc overexpression is likely to be an important oncogenic consequence of CDC4 / FBXW7 loss .
Up - regulation of MMP activity , favoring proteolytic degradation of the basement membrane and extracellular matrix , has been linked to tumor growth and metastasis , as well as tumor - associated angiogenesis , whereas inhibition of MMP activity appears to restrict these processes .
The microvessel density ( MVD ) ) decreased from 42 . 4 + / - 4 . 8 to 10 . 5 + / - 3 . 2 per x 200 magnificetion microscopic field by CD10 staining and from 68 . 5 + / - 4 . 5 to 37 . 5 + / - 4 . 6 by CD31 staining , respectively ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
Capillary cell migration and proliferation are proposed as sensitive quantifiable bioassays to explore the functional domains of the EGF molecule .
The early closure of all wounds implies that the rabbit ear model may not be valid for chronic wound studies .
Regulation of transforming growth factor - beta signaling and vascular diseases .
Collectively , our results suggest that the loss of SEMA3 expression could be a hallmark of cancer progression .
After 4 days , these cells are harvested and cytospins made for immunostaining .
CONCLUSIONS : Low - dose cyclophosphamide and high - dose celecoxib is well tolerated and active in pretreated aggressive non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma .
Infection with retroviruses containing transforming genes of the src and ras oncogene families led to rapid loss of epidermal growth factor dependence , in some cases , accompanied by alterations in cellular morphology .
Early administration of prednisolone ( day 3 , low and high dose ) resulted in the recultivation of significantly more C . albicans .
Anti - IL - 6 therapy is a new strategy in the inflammatory autoimmune diseases and cancer .
Expression of COX - 2 mRNA and synthesis of PGE ( 2 ) were inhibited by BV .
RESULTS : The control group showed the highest level of corneal clouding and neovascularization .
alpha - MSH alone had little effect , whereas coincubation with IL - 1 beta led to marked downregulation of IL - 8 secretion ( at most 288 + / - 152 ng / mL ) when compared to treatment with IL - 1 beta alone ( 919 + / - 157 ng / mL ) .
Overexpression confers an oncogenic potential upon the eph gene .
To observe the influence of fungus polysaccharides compounds ( FPC ) in inducing human liver cancer cell Bel - 7402 apoptosis in cell cultivating in vitro , the authors analyzed tumor inhibitive gene P53 expression in Bel - 7402 apoptosis by applying double immuno - marker .
CCL16 induces dose - dependent random and directional migration of endothelial cells isolated from large vessels and liver capillaries without inducing their proliferation .
13C and 1H nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( NMR ) was used to investigate the metabolism of L - lactate and D - glucose in C6 glioma cells .
In 1986 , Dvorak went on to demonstrate that VPF was secreted by a variety of human tumor cell lines and proposed that VPF was in part responsible for the abnormal vasculature seen in human tumors .
In addition , most of these agents require instrumentation of the urinary tract and are delivered at a significant cost and potential morbidity to the patient .
Attenuation of NF - kappaB activation by TSC phenolic fraction was associated with significant decrease of intracellular PKC substrate phosphorylation in BPDE treated cells .
Thalidomide at the concentrations of 0 . 01 microM and 10 microM inhibited VEGF secretion into supernatants , decreased the number of formed capillary tubes and increased cell adhesion to collagen .
Upon retroviral transduction of the mouse c - myc gene , Rat 6 cells showed mildly altered morphology and formed microcolonies in soft agar ; furthermore , they could be transformed by BP and MNNG to form large colonies in agar ( Hsiao et al . ( 1992 ) Mol . Carcinogenesis , 5 , 140 - 154 ) .
BACKGROUND : The Ras association domain family 1 ( RASSF1 ) gene is a Ras effector encoding two major mRNA forms , RASSF1A and RASSF1C , derived by alternative promoter selection and alternative mRNA splicing .
sVAP - 1 levels were assayed by enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay .
Interestingly , a survey of a clinical breast cancer surgical database showed that the incidence of asthma was higher among patients with lung metastases .
FOXO3a elicits a pro - apoptotic transcription program and cellular response to human lung carcinogen nicotine - derived nitrosaminoketone ( NNK ) .
Previous studies have shown that activation of the signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 ( STAT5 ) plays an essential role in leukemogenesis mediated through constitutive activated protein tyrosine kinases ( PTK ) .
Possible mechanisms involved in sensitizing cells to a p53 - dependent apoptosis pathway in spite of the ability of T antigen to bind and inactivate the transcriptional transactivating activity of p53 are discussed .
Analysis of Runx2 - expressing lymphomas reveals a consistently low rate of apoptosis , in contrast to lymphomas of MYC mice which are often highly apoptotic .
A tumor ' s ability to successfully metastasize may be dependent on mediators generated in the tumor - host interaction , and may not be just an independent characteristic of the tumor itself .
Notably , the activation of BMPRII by BMP - 2 is required for modulation of Smad activation by NF - kappaB in PC cells .
BX471 ( R - N - [ 5 - chloro - 2 - [ 2 - [ 4 ( 4 - fluorophenyl ) methyl ] - 2 - methyl - 1 - piperazinyl ] - 2 - oxoethoxy ] phenyl ] urea hydrochloric acid salt ) , a CCR1 antagonist , inhibits angiogenic properties of CCL16 , whereas blocking of CCR8 or desensitizing CCR2 , which are both well known receptors for CCL16 , did not abolish endothelial activation .
Furthermore , specific downregulation of either caspase - 9 , Bax , or Bak by siRNA effectively reduced PARP cleavage and caspase - 3 activation .
Thus stage specific duality of function is the emerging paradigm for the role of TGFbeta1 in cancer .
Endothelial cells bound fluorescein - labeled collagen I fibrils , an interaction specifically inhibited by SMI496 .
Undoubtedly , blood vessels growth regulation is a vital aspect in health and disease .
RNA encoding glucokinase ( GK ) , the high - Km HK isozyme , was found only in cancer cells originating from liver and pancreas , which express GK under normal conditions .
B - cell lines established from two individuals with T - cell acute lymphocytic leukemia ( T - ALL ) express HLA - DR antigens , whereas the isogenic T - cells do not .
STUDY DESIGN : Thirty - three archival cytologic specimens from eight patients with histologically confirmed malignant mesothelioma and 13 from patients with metastatic serous effusions were destained and then immunostained with anticalretinin antiserum .
After additional prednisolone treatment from day 9 or 15 after inoculation , no significant difference was detected in the recultivation rate of C . albicans compared with the control .
Here , we demonstrate that HIF - 2alpha protein is selectively present in human fetal week 8 . 5 SNS paraganglia .
In mice , xenografts of human glioblastoma U87MG , which has decreased expression of ING4 , grow significantly faster and have higher vascular volume fractions than control tumours .
Homeobox genes have a strikingly conserved 61 - amino acid sequence , encoding DNA - binding domain .
Invasion is the hallmark of tumor malignancy .
Recently , there is an increasing number of patents which have been focused on the inhibitors of VEGF action .
Runx2 and MYC collaborate in lymphoma development by suppressing apoptotic and growth arrest pathways in vivo .
It may modulate cellular energy metabolism or be a substrate in a chemical reaction generating reactive oxygen species .
In conclusion , FAS - 1377 G - - > A polymorphism may be associated with an increased risk of lymph node metastasis in Korean cervical cancer patients .
These results indicate that Hyp is a powerful anti - inflammatory compound with therapeutic potential , and they elucidate mechanistic keys .
The function of p53 tumor suppressor is often altered in various human tumors predominantly through missense - mutations resulting in accumulation of mutant proteins .
Administration of exogenous polyamines prevented ACA - induced apoptosis represented by a reduction in the number of apoptotic bodies and also caused reduction in the induced caspase - 3 - like protease activity at 8 h .
The authors concluded that , as also in the study of Northern blotting , the expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA significantly correlated inversely with lymph node metastasis in CBM , while the expression of nm23 - H2 mRNA not .
Ectopic decorin expression up - regulates VEGF expression in mouse cerebral endothelial cells via activation of the transcription factors Sp1 , HIF1alpha , and Stat3 .
The mice that received Hoxa9 / Meis1 - transduced bone marrow cells developed acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) , and Trib1 , Evi1 , Ahi1 , Raralpha , Pitpnb , and AK039950 were identified as candidate cooperative genes located near common retroviral integration sites .
Human papillomavirus oncoprotein E6 inactivates the transcriptional coactivator human ADA3 .
Glucose deprivation - mediated sensitization to apoptosis was prevented in MCF - 7 cells overexpressing BCL - 2 .
Several cell types in a tissue secrete IL - 8 .
SOC activation in rat pulmonary arterial endothelial cells increased free cytosolic Ca2 + that was dependent on a membrane current having a net inward component of 5 . 45 + / - 0 . 90 pA / pF at - 80 mV .
Neovascularization is associated with mechanical strain - dependent induction of angiogenic factors such as CCN1 , an immediate - early gene - encoded matricellular molecule critical for vascular development and repair .
Unirradiated animals showed equal neovascularization of both implants .
LDH5 overexpression in cancer cells induces an upregulated glycolytic metabolism and reduced dependence on the presence of oxygen .
As a consequence the cyclin D1 ( bcl - 1 ) gene is juxtaposed to the immunoglobulin heavy chain enhancer E mu .
p63 - positive cells were found in 16 % of carcinomas .
The present study was designed to investigate the effect of transplanted MSCs from rats of different ages on the improvement of heart function after AMI .
Role of the fibrinolytic and matrix metalloproteinase systems in development of adipose tissue .
Anagen - associated angiogenesis offers an attractive model for identifying the physiologic controls of cutaneous angiogenesis , and an interesting system for screening the effects of potential antiangiogenic drugs in vivo .
Regulation of tumor angiogenesis by thrombospondin - 1 .
Reconstitution of MCF - 7 cell extracts with procaspase - 3 corrects this defect , resulting in an efficient and complete processing of procaspase - 9 .
Preliminary data suggest that TnI may be competing with bFGF for interaction with the bFGF receptor on responsive cells .
Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 staining was relatively sparse but was significantly increased until 8 weeks after surgery .
This study suggests that angiogenin may be important in breast cancer progression and that , through its relationship with ER , it may be a target for tamoxifen .
However , although beta ( 2 ) M and MHC class I are expressed on normal hematopoietic cells , which is a potential safety concern , the monoclonal antibodies were selective to tumor cells and did not damage normal cells in vitro or in human - like mouse models .
Ethanol exposure resulted in reduced VEGF - induced cord formation on collagen and reduced capillary network structure on Matrigel in vitro .
Irradiation delivered before implantation ( 900 cGy ) inhibited neovascularization significantly less than the same dose administered after implantation .
The increased migration and invasion resulted from up - regulation of expression and activities of MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 .
With HL60 cells loss of the 55 kDa Glut - 1 band was observed and a band of 45 kDa appeared .
In EC9706 cells , the mechanism of aspirin and nimesulide induced growth inhibition was a consequence of cell cycle arrest at the G ( 0 ) / G ( 1 ) check point .
However , the strong increase of angiogenesis in AOGEN - transgenic mice compared with mice with normal ANG II levels suggests additional stimulatory activity .
Indeed , Ang1 promotes the activation of mDia through RhoA , resulting in the association of mDia with Src .
Both groups believe that pulp revascularization and regeneration will be viable treatment modalities in the future .
Selective inhibition of nuclear factor - kappaB by nuclear factor - kappaB essential modulator - binding domain peptide suppresses the metastasis of highly metastatic oral squamous cell carcinoma .
The result showed that the multilevel of FPC could all apparently induce Bel - 7402 apoptosis .
In conclusion , CXCR4 expression is associated with gastric cancer cell migration in vitro , and strong expression of CXCR4 by gastric cancer cells is significantly associated with lymphatic metastasis in patients with gastric cancer , suggesting that CXCR4 plays an important role during gastric cancer progression .
OBJECTIVE : The aim of this study was the follow - up of VEGF expression during the course of CML .
They were also variably resistant to the anti - proliferative and anti - invasive signals from TGFbeta .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is a naturally secreted endothelial cell - specific mitogen .
These studies therefore indicate a specific and a regulatory role of the PKCalpha isoform in three major endothelial cell functions that are important in the maintenance of microvascular homeostasis .
The antibody also blocks ligand - stimulated activation of PDGFRbeta and downstream signaling molecules , including Akt and MAPK p42 / 44 , in tumor cells .
To directly address whether pericyte dysfunction increases the metastatic potential of solid tumors , we studied beta cell tumorigenesis in primary pericyte - deficient Pdgfb ( ret / ret ) mice .
In order to study whether ATX expression affects motility - dependent processes such as invasion and metastasis , we stably transfected full - length ATX cDNA into two non - expressing cell lines , parental and ras - transformed NIH3T3 ( clone7 ) cells .
Application of clonal analysis .
Paradoxically , OSM can also suppress the growth of normal cells and certain tumor - derived cell lines .
Augmented lymphangiogenesis was observed within tumors when HEC1A / VEGF - C cells were inoculated .
The high - mobility group A2 gene ( HMGA2 ) is one of the most frequently amplified genes in human cancers .
Normal cells contain suppressor gene ( s ) which safeguard these cells against transformation by the product of the transforming Ha - ras - 1 oncogene .
The present study aimed to investigate whether PTEN promoter methylation was involved in CCMs .
With this retrovirus , LMP1 was shown to stimulate the proliferation of primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts ( MEF cells ) .
Some homeobox genes , located in four clusters are designated HOX A through D , while others are known as divergent homeobox genes .
We generated monoclonal antibodies that target FGF - BP protein and used them as a tool to evaluate frequency and pattern of FGF - BP expression during the malignant progression of pancreas and colorectal carcinoma in archival tissue samples .
The recent demonstration that VEGF signaling is modulated by the Notch signaling pathway , however , suggests that inhibiting Notch signaling may enhance regional neovascularization , by altering the responsiveness of local endothelial cells to angiogenic stimuli .
Typically , proliferation and chemotaxis of endothelial cells is driven by growth factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) .
The transmembrane peptidase prostate - specific membrane antigen ( PSMA ) is universally upregulated in the vasculature of solid tumors , but its functional role in tumor angiogenesis has not been investigated .
Tumor cells adapt to hypoxia by modulating their phenotype .
Because the identity of pulmonary endothelial SOCs is unknown , but mammalian homologues of the Drosophila melanogaster transient receptor potential ( trp ) gene have been proposed to form Ca2 + entry channels in nonexcitable cells , we performed RT - PCR using Trp oligonucleotide primers in both rat and human pulmonary arterial endothelial cells .
The HPV oncoprotein E6 is essential for oncogenic transformation .
Ablation of ADAM - 9 in fibroblasts almost completely abolished these cellular interactions and melanoma cell invasion in vitro .
RESULTS : LOH of D10S541 , D10S583 and D10S1687 was found in 37 . 5 % ( 21 / 56 ) of advanced gastric cancers .
The elevated serum TNF - alpha level observed following MTX treatment was depressed with L - Car .
Group 1 animals had the left buccal pouches painted three times weekly with 7 , 12 - dimethylbenz ( a ) anthracene ( DMBA ) for 14 weeks .
It was thought that potent antiangiogenic effect of cRGD - HL was probably due to the interference of alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) - mediated interaction , resulting in the enhanced antitumoral activity against SCC7 tumor .
The NBD peptide suppressed metastasis and tongue tumor growth in GSAS / N5 - inoculated mice , and was accompanied by the downregulation of the NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules in engrafted tongue tumors .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , fibroblast growth factor ( FGF ) , recombinant proteins and bone marrow stem cells are currently used therapeutic stimulators for angiogenesis .
Exposure to combinations of paclitaxel or carboplatin and 317615 x 2HCl with MX - 1 cells in culture resulted in cell survival that reflected primarily additivity of the two agents .
Monoclonal antibody targeted therapy directed against EGF - R or Her - 2 / neu , the use of anti - sense oligonucleotides and oligodeoxynucleotides , and the application of tyrosine kinase and protein C - kinase inhibitors are currently being investigated .
LRP - 1 also is implicated in integrin maturation .
Compared to controls , co - culture of MDA - MB - 231 cells with stromal or osteoblastic cells induced an increase in number of osteoclasts and TRAP activities .
The last 7 years have seen over seven times as many publications indexed by Medline dealing with pomegranate and Punica granatum than in all the years preceding them .
To evaluate the role of VEGF - C in lymph node metastasis , we developed an animal model by using an endometrial cancer cell line , HEC1A .
Thus , 5T4 molecules can deliver signals through both the extracellular and intracellular domains , and the resultant effects are consistent with a role for 5T4 molecules in invasion processes .
The antitumor activity of cRGD - HL was also evaluated by monitoring tumor growth and microvessel formation in squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC7 ) tumor .
Antiapoptotic effect of coagulation factor VIIa .
Pretreatment IL levels were not associated with outcome .
Such repression activity was totally absent with mutant pm490 / 1 / 5A .
These findings reveal a novel strategy of HPV E6 - induced loss of p53 function that is independent of direct p53 degradation .
Various studies using the mouse , quail / chick , and frog have uncovered a number of signals that guide these complex processes but many gaps still exist in our understanding of the mechanisms by which the embryonic vasculature is built .
Hence , the down - regulation of p21WAF1 , together with the alterations in Bax and cdk2 as observed in our studies , may define a novel mechanism by which ciprofloxacin inhibits tumor cell growth and induces apoptotic cell death .
An analysis of the Pbx1 promoter region revealed that Evi - 1 upregulates Pbx1 transcription .
[ Correlation between expression of vascular endothelial growth factor - C in tumor - associated macrophages and lymphatic metastasis in oral cancer ] .
This result suggested that either the structural or the functional integrity of the J domain is required to sensitize cells to apoptosis .
Bevacizumab and irinotecan therapy in glioblastoma multiforme : a series of 13 cases .
p18Ink4c , but not p27Kip1 , collaborates with Men1 to suppress neuroendocrine organ tumors .
Estrogen is crucial in breast carcinogenesis and tumor progression .
However , mechanism ( s ) by which VEGFR2 signaling and trafficking is coordinated are not clear .
In summary , these results suggest that ADAM - 9 expression plays an important role in mediating cell - cell contacts between fibroblasts and melanoma cells and that these interactions contribute to proteolytic activities required during invasion of melanoma cells .
The effect of ATX secretion on in vitro cell motility was variable .
This event is independent of fibrin formation .
The relationship between expression of PTEN mRNA and protein and lymph node metastasis or LOH of microsatellites was discussed .
In addition , VEGF might be associated with the etiology of periodontitis in its early stages according to neovascularization stimulated by periodontal pathogens causing swelling and edema .
A remarkable delay of tumor growth and prolonged life span were also observed .
A low - Km , mitochondrial type II - like tumor HK is described as the predominant form in hepatomas .
However , there was no difference in expression of TSP - 2 and CD36 mRNA in these samples .
RESULTS : Using the D2 - 40 antibody for immunostaining , our results demonstrate a significant higher detection ( P < 0 . 001 ) of LVI as compared with routine H . E . - staining in early breast cancer .
Control RM - 9 cells and RM - 9 cells stably transfected with IL - 12 gene ( RM - 9 - IL12 ) were inoculated subcutaneously in 4 - to 6 - week - old male C57BL / J6 mice .
Targeted down - regulation of PIM - 2 by RNA interference ( RNAi ) selectively abrogated survival of Ba / F3 cells transformed by various Fms - like tyrosine kinase 3 ( FLT3 ) - activating mutants [ internal tandem duplication ( ITD ) and kinase domain ] and attenuated growth of human cell lines containing FLT3 mutations .
Killing tumor cells through their surface beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin or major histocompatibility complex class I molecules .
The median time to disease progression while on treatment was 24 weeks .
Glycolysis and glutaminolysis in perifused Ehrlich ascites tumour cells .
The different tumorigenic potential of SV40 in WAP - T and WAP - mutCK1delta / WAP - T tumors was also reflected by a significantly different expression of various genes known to be involved in tumor progression , specifically of those involved in wnt - signaling and DNA repair .
High levels of these angiogenic factors in heart disease also have not translated into clinically significant new vessel formation , as in accelerated cancer growth or proliferative retinopathy .
Besides their direct toxicity GDPs promote formation of advanced glycation endproducts ( AGEs ) .
DNA of the non - tumorigenic cell hybrids transformed Rat - 1 cells to anchorage - independent proliferation as expected for the transforming human Ha - ras gene present in the donor DNA .
We have investigated the mechanism by which the simian virus 40 large T antigen ( SVLT ) interferes with the differentiation of C2 myoblasts .
BMSVTs exhibited a partially transformed phenotype , demonstrating growth factor independence , altered antigen expression and forming tiny , infrequent colonies in vitro .
First clinical control with second angiography was performed 6 weeks after irradiation , then in 3 - month intervals .
In comparison with nonmetastasis Hep3B cell lines , there were 16 proteins overexpressed in MHCC97H and MHCC97L , 10 proteins underexpressed in MHCC97H and MHCC97L .
Mutants of TEL that removed a binding site for the mSin3A corepressor but retained the ETS domain failed to repress stromelysin - 1 .
Complexes containing VEGF165 , NRP1 , and KDR were also formed in an intercellular fashion by co - culture of EC expressing KDR only , with cells expressing NRP1 only , for example , breast carcinoma cells .
After seizures , blood - brain barrier breakdown and inflammation is also observed in brain , albeit on a lower scale than that observed after stroke .
The present findings may be of importance to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying the spread of cancer via the lymphatics and explore the therapeutical strategy of honokiol on antilymphangiogenesis and antimetastasis .
TTF - 1 immunohistochemistry could focus the search for the primary tumor for patients presenting with brain metastasis as the initial manifestation .
Elevated levels of diacylglycerol and decreased phorbol ester sensitivity in ras - transformed fibroblasts .
This organ is derived from an upwards growth of the primitive oropharynx , a K5 - expressing tissue .
This action is not observed with uninfected CEF , and , therefore , appears to require some expression of the viral src gene in the target cells .
The Met proto - oncogene mesenchymal to epithelial cell conversion .
This induction of Ets - 1 may be relevant for reendothelialization by regulating the expression of certain genes .
Importantly , we show that mouse p10 is able to induce cell cycle arrest in a p53 - dependent manner .
Here we investigated this possibility by examining the role of FOXO3a in the cellular response to nicotine - derived nitrosaminoketone ( NNK ) , a lung carcinogen implicated as a cause of human LAC .
Apart from the vascular grade , none of the other factors examined was statistically related to lymph node metastasis ( P less than 0 . 0001 ) .
The myoadipose flap : a new composite .
AQP4 was expressed in the cell membrane and cytoplasm and was detected markedly stronger in normal than in cancer tissues .
Vessel density ( MVD - microvessel density ) , endothelial cell proliferation fraction ( ECP % ) and tumour cell proliferation fraction ( TCP % ) were assessed .
In this model , UFT showed a strong angiogenesis - inhibitory effect , whereas 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) and doxifluridine were less effective .
The metronomic concept might not universally apply to every cytotoxic drug in colorectal cancer and metronomic combination regimens should be used with caution .
Thalidomide [ alpha - ( N - phthalimido ) - glutarimide ] is known to be a potent inhibitor of angiogenesis , but the mechanism of its inhibitory action remains unclear .
Furthermore , there is strong evidence suggesting that aberrant activation of Wnt signaling induces mammary tumors from stem / progenitor cells , and that Wnt exerts its oncogenic effects through LRP5 / 6 - mediated activation of beta - catenin and mTOR pathways .
Associations of KISS1 methylation and its expression with histopathological variables and poor survival suggest the utility of incorporating KISS1 measurement using paraffin - embedded material for tumor stratification and clinical outcome prognosis of patients with uroepithelial neoplasias .
In in vivo study , liposomal honokiol significantly inhibited the tumor - associated lymphangiogenesis and metastasis in Lewis lung carcinoma model .
Structural changes were promoted by toxicity of glucose degradation products ( GDPs ) which are generated during heat sterilization in peritoneal dialysis fluids ( PDFs ) .
IGF - 1 enhances cell proliferation and survival .
These novel functions of p53 help to align metabolic processes with the proliferation and energy status , to maintain optimal mode of glucose metabolism and to boost the energy efficient mitochondrial respiration in response to ATP deficiency .
An evaluation of low molecular weight heparin and hyperbaric oxygen treatment in the prevention of intra - abdominal adhesions and wound healing .
Lactate - dehydrogenase 5 is overexpressed in non - small cell lung cancer and correlates with the expression of the transketolase - like protein 1 .
The effect of angiopoietin 1 depends on the tumour model .
Dss1 overexpression was detected by Northern blot analysis in early TPA - treated hyperplastic skins and in JB6 Cl 41 - 5a epidermal cells .
Moreover , about 10 % of v - fos transformed cells transfected with vectors that express antisense junB mRNA acquired a non - transformed phenotype .
C / EBPbeta is over - expressed in gastric carcinogenesis and is associated with COX - 2 expression .
Collectively , the experiments define the role of Ang - 2 during tumor angiogenesis and establish a better rationale for combination therapies involving Ang - 2 manipulatory therapies .
PEDF was found to be decreased in diabetics ( mean values : 2080 vs . 5780 ng / ml ; p = 0 . 04 ) compared to controls .
In a second step , these parameters were further analyzed by hierarchical cluster analyses .
In addition , the silencing of DCC expression may contribute to the escape of endometrial cancer cells from a DCC - regulated apoptotic program , thereby promoting malignant phenotypes .
Reduced oncogenicity of p190 Bcr / Abl F - actin - binding domain mutants .
Promoting angiogenesis via delivery of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and other angiogenic factors is both a potential therapy for cardiovascular diseases and a critical aspect for tissue regeneration .
Therefore , our results indicate that emodin inhibits HER - 2 / neu tyrosine kinase activity and preferentially suppresses growth and induces differentiation of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing cancer cells .
Inhibition of MEK also blocked growth factor induced migration but not adhesion of endothelial cells in vitro .
They were consistent with the concept of the existence of 2 pools of both lactate and pyruvate , of which 1 pool was closely connected with exogenous lactate and oxidative metabolism , and the other pool was closely related to glycolysis and disconnected from oxidative metabolism .
Archival tissues from 40 patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma who received primary surgical resection were examined for HSP27 by immunohistochemistry and correlated with clinical stage , lymph node metastasis , histological grade and survival period .
WIT003 , as well as pure 20 - HETE , stimulated EC proliferation by approximately 40 % .
In addition , the positivity rate of EphA2 was significantly higher in primary lesions with lymph node metastasis than in those without metastasis ( p = 0 . 0014 ) .
The nm23 - H1 gene product has been considered as an anti - metastatic protein and the level of its expression has been reported to correlate inversely with metastatic potential in some cancers .
A putative progestin - response element was identified in the human TSP - 1 promoter , which is consistent with the hypothesis that a progestin - PR complex might directly regulate transcription of the TSP - 1 gene in human cells .
Orthogonal polarization spectral imaging showed no difference in functional capillary density between the scaffolds cultured on chorioallantoic membranes .
Two of these spots were identified by MALDI - MS analysis as proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( PCNA ) and myeloid - leukemia - associated SET protein .
Furthermore , infected cells evince a marked upregulation of the EBNA genes .
Analysis of the stability of HAH - cortisol showed that it was stable at pH 7 . 4 and broke down rapidly ( t1 / 2 15 min ) at pH 4 . 8 at 37 degrees C .
Airway angiogenesis and microvascular remodeling are known features of bronchial asthma , but the mechanisms of these structural alterations are just beginning to be elucidated .
Roles of brca2 ( fancd1 ) in oocyte nuclear architecture , gametogenesis , gonad tumors , and genome stability in zebrafish .
3 - Chloromethylthiochromone - 1 , 1 - dioxide was observed to be a potent inhibitor of Ehrlich ascites carcinoma growth and a moderate inhibitor of P - 388 lymphocytic leukemia growth at 10 mg / kg / day .
Nontumorigenic , immortalized keratinocytes cell line ( 3PC ) , papilloma ( MT1 / 2 ) , and squamous cell carcinoma ( Ca3 / 7 ) cell lines were initially used to study the cell growth inhibition by DMI .
Since the intrinsic resistance of prostate carcinoma likely reflects a low susceptibility to drug - induced apoptosis , in this study we explored the possibility of sensitizing prostate carcinoma cells to apoptosis by combination of TRAIL with camptothecins .
But because these experiments were performed on confluent cultures of established cell lines , the differences are difficult to attribute to ras transformation .
There was a significant correlation between loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 expression and upregulation of c - myc .
BACKGROUND : The PI3K - Akt signal pathway plays a key role in tumorigenesis and the development of drug - resistance .
Highly metastatic IV Cl 1 cells expressed approximately 5 fold lower levels of protein encoded by NME genes than non - metastatic IV Cl 3 cells .
DPD expression did not significantly correlate with the occurrence of lymph node metastasis , nor was it different between primary oral cancer cells and cervical metastases .
In this communication , we describe an alternative approach that begins with teleology ; i . e . adaptive landscapes and selection pressures that promote emergence of aerobic glycolysis during the somatic evolution of invasive cancer .
This is primarily based on limited in vitro studies on tumor cells derived from transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder that revealed a dose - and time - dependent inhibition of cell growth by ciprofloxacin at concentrations that are easily attainable in the urine of patients .
Appearance of tumorous phenotypes in goldfish erythrophores transfected with ras , src , and myc oncogenes and spontaneous differentiation of the transformants in vitro .
However , VEGF has also been shown to be neuroprotective across several experimental paradigms , and hence could potentially protect vulnerable cells from damage associated with seizures .
In the orthotopic xenograft model , rAAV2 / 5 - VAS suppressed metastasis of A549 tumors to mediastinal lymph nodes and contralateral lung .
This indicates that the strategy may be a useful therapeutic avenue for treatment of patients with malignant glioma .
We studied the expression of CXCR4 using RT - PCR , Western blotting , flow cytometry , and confocal microscopy in five gastric cancer cell lines .
Telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein complex critically involved in extending and maintaining telomeres .
The effects of this compound on the vascular development lend credibility to its potential as an anticancer agent .
SMI activities were examined in vivo by supplementing the growth medium of zebrafish embryos expressing green fluorescent protein under the control of the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 2 promoter .
We also demonstrate direct interaction of Egr - 1 with Id - 1 promoter in vitro and in cell culture .
Due to space limitations , we can not review the molecular control of CNS angiogenesis , but refer the reader to other chapters in this book and to recent publications on the assembly of the vasculature ( 1 , 2 ) .
The 3 - D organization of these extracellular components distinguishes the Surgisis mesh from synthetic materials and is associated with constructive tissue remodelling instead of scar tissue .
Strong CXCR4 expression was significantly associated with lymph node metastases ( P = 0 . 028 ) and higher stages III / IV ( P = 0 . 047 ) , and further tended to be correlated with a reduced 5 - year survival rate ( 42 . 6 % vs . 53 . 9 % ; P = 0 . 1 ) .
In addition , hypoxia conditioning - induced tumor cell migration was reduced by the infection of lentiviral shRNA of TB4 .
These mice were then treated with ganciclovir to specifically target only the vGPCR - expressing cells .
Many of these alterations parallel those observed in human patients suffering from cancer cachexia making canine lymphoma a potential model for further study of the pathogenesis and therapy of cancer cachexia .
Mutations in colonic adenomas , and the frequent losses on 4q described in gastric cancer prompt speculation about the role of CDC4 / FBXW7 in gastric carcinogenesis .
RESULTS : There was a positive correlation between plasma fibrinogen levels and the depth of invasion ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
The mechanism proposed is a stimulation of angiogenesis for distant dormant micrometastases .
The level of neu expression , as well as the differential expression between P185neu and LAR / PTP1B , directly correlated with tumorigenicity .
Induction of the MKP - 1 protein in the MCF10A - Myc and MDA - MB - 231 breast epithelial cell lines was also seen .
Western blot analysis demonstrated increased active form SREBP in migrating as compared to non - migrating ECs population .
This resulted in formation of tumors , which were pigmented and of epithelial origin .
In addition , the pathogenesis of some human cancers is attributed to misregulation of TGFbeta function and SMAD2 or SMAD4 mutations .
Angiopoietin - 2 ( Ang - 2 ) is prominently up - regulated in the host - derived vasculature of most tumors , making it an attractive candidate for antiangiogenic intervention .
They also serve as important intracellular signaling molecules that amplify the synovial inflammatory - proliferative response .
SAHA downregulated Bcl - XL and upregulated proapoptotic BH3 - only protein Bim , whose expression was further enhanced by E1A in cancer cells .
Requirement of estrogen receptor expression and function for [ 12Val ] K - Ras - mediated NIH3T3 cell transformation .
NaF and Group I compounds induced internucleosomal DNA fragmentation in HL - 60 cells , whereas Group II compounds were inactive even in the presence of NaF .
siRNA - mediated knockdown of the ATG7 gene also sensitized hepatoma cells to sorafenib .
Here , we show that deleting the Tip30 gene leads to ductal hyperplasia in mouse mammary glands early in life and extensive mammary hyperplasia with age .
PTTG activated E - box transcription and induced c - Myc protein expression in EC9706 cells , which in turn may act on an E - box motif within the galectin - 1 promoter .
The effects of LMP1 on the invasion and migration of CNE1 cells were investigated by transwell methods .
N - myc is coexpressed with WT1 in the developing kidney and is overexpressed in many Wilms ' tumors .
The high - oncogenic - risk HPV types associated with invasive cervical cancer produce two oncoproteins , designated E6 and E7 , which interact with endogenous cell cycle regulatory proteins , including p53 and Rb .
Overall , our findings identify AMPK as an important target protein for mediating the anti - tumor properties of AglRhz in HT - 29 colon cancer cells and have important implication for sponges , the most important marine source , in colon cancer .
Prognostic significance of heat shock protein 27 ( HSP27 ) in patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma .
Numerous products from fruits , vegetable and traditional medicinal plants have been described which can suppress TNF expression and TNF signaling but their clinical potential is yet uncertain .
The steroidal - based drug 2 - ethyloestradiol - 3 , 17 - O , O - bis - sulphamate ( STX243 ) has been developed as a potent antiangiogenic and antitumour compound .
BACKGROUND : The aim of this study was to investigate not only the intratumoral and peritumoral lymphatic vessel density ( ILD and PLD ) but also the expression of vascular endothelial growth factors ( VEGFs ) and to test their correlation with regional lymph nodal metastases in papillary thyroid microcarcinoma ( PTMC ) .
Hypoxia - inducible factor 1 ( HIF - 1 ) activates vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) gene expression in hypoxic / ischemic tissue .
The leukemia cell lines K562 and HL - 60 had no detectable TGF - beta RII mRNA .
One of the clones ( clone 1510 ) contained the gene encoding latent membrane protein ( LMP ) .
CONCLUSION : Immunostaining with D2 - 40 significantly increased the frequency of detection of lymphatic invasion compared to conventional H . E . - staining in early breast cancer .
Besides regulating leukocyte trafficking in normal and injured tissues , several chemokines may positively or negatively regulate angiogenesis .
Low density lipoprotein receptor - related protein - 1 ( LRP - 1 ) is a catabolic receptor for extracellular matrix ( ECM ) structural proteins and for proteins that bind to ECM .
Radiation retinopathy is treatable with anti - vascular endothelial growth factor bevacizumab ( Avastin ) .
Furthermore , the Matrigel plugs with AdCMV . VEGF165 demonstrated hemoglobin content fourfold higher than the plugs with AdCMV . beta gal .
The DSCR1s promoter was similarly induced in the endothelium of tumor xenografts .
As a result , GSE could inhibit VEGF - induced endothelial cell proliferation and migration as well as sprout formation from aorta ring .
The mechanism underlying this VEGF - associated angiogenesis may be an increase in stretch due to enhanced diastolic filling .
The insulin - conditioned RPE cell media stimulated capillary endothelial cell proliferation , an effect that was completely blocked by anti - VEGF neutralizing antibody .
The heat shock proteins ( HSPs ) centered and NF - kappaB centered networks were also enriched in the result , which may imply the key function of inflaming on metastasis .
The association of fibrinogen levels with clinical / pathological findings and clinical outcome was evaluated .
In contrast , a selective COX - I inhibitor , SC - 560 , had no effect on serum progesterone concentrations .
Relationship between of blood flow , glucose metabolism , protein synthesis , glucose and ATP content in experimentally - induced glioma ( RG1 2 . 2 ) of rat brain .
Furthermore , the Runx2 / MYC combination overcomes the requirement for genetic inactivation of the p53 pathway in vivo .
METHODS : PTEN promoter methylation was detected in surgical specimens of CCMs ( n = 69 ) by methylation - specific polymerase chain reaction .
The cellular tumour antigen p53 is found at elevated levels in a wide variety of transformed cells ( for reviews see refs 1 , 2 ) .
Vascularization of subcutaneous Matrigel implants as well as tumor angiogenesis were both inhibited in PECAM - 1 - null mice .
The cell cycle progression and sub - G1 population were analysed by flow cytometry .
CONCLUSION : These results suggest that 16 Gy of conventionally fractionated external beam irradiation slows down the visual loss in exudative AMD for only a few months .
The spreading areas of the cells on 15 - and 30 - microm wide strips were 30 % lower than those on 60 - microm wide strips and unpatterned collagen .
One hundred mg / body / day of TS - 1 was orally administrated for 4 weeks .
Meanwhile , knockdown of HDGF , an up - regulated protein and a target of NF - kappaB , induced cell apoptosis in the metastatic HCC cells .
Left ventricular capillary length density ( mm / mm ( 3 ) ) increased gradually with alinidine administration ; a 15 % increase after 2 weeks and a 40 % increase after 3 weeks of alinidine treatment were documented .
4 - Dodecylmorpholine N - oxide ( DMNO ) , one of the most active compounds , decreased the level of ATP immediately after addition to the suspension of Ehrlich cells in an ice bath .
PLAG1 overexpression in salivary glands has previously been shown to result in salivary gland tumors in 100 % of mice within 5 weeks after birth .
Murine leukemia L1210 cells rendered deficient in glutathione peroxidase ( GPX ) and phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase ( PHGPX ) by Se deprivation ( L . Se ( - ) cells ) were found to be more sensitive to tert - butyl hydroperoxide ( t - BuOOH ) cytotoxicity than Se - replete controls ( L . Se ( + ) cells ) .
Apoptosis induced by 1 ' - acetoxychavicol acetate in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells is associated with modulation of polyamine metabolism and caspase - 3 activation .
Notch proteins are plasma membrane - spanning receptors that mediate important cell fate decisions such as differentiation , proliferation , and apoptosis .
Efficient inhibition of ovarian cancer growth and prolonged survival by transfection with a novel pro - apoptotic gene , hPNAS - 4 , in a mouse model .
Reporter gene analyses with a series of nested deletion mutants of the hepatoma type II hexokinase promoter show that a significant fraction of the total activation observed under hypoxic conditions localizes to the distal region where the overlapping HIF - 1 / E - box sequences are located .
These findings suggest that PA through protease cascade plays a role in tumor invasion and metastasis .
VEGF - targeted therapy : therapeutic potential and recent advances .
These results suggest that the tumor - bearing animal , even prior to significant cachexia , has an excess demand for energy , the provision of which may be a significant factor in malignant cachexia .
COX - 2 protein was detected in eight of the 12 carcinomas , whereas PPARgamma protein was detected in only two cases .
However , the mechanism by which E7 contributes to cellular transformation is unknown .
Expression of GTP or GDP - bound Rab5a mutants block activated VEGFR2 trafficking and degradation .
Recent reports suggest that elevated levels of plasminogen activator inhibitor - 1 ( PAI - 1 ) may contribute to tumour progression .
It is concluded that the observed increase in the Na + / K + ratio in ascites tumor cells is connected with their enhanced ability to synthesize lactic acid .
In this work , we show that LPA stimulates invasion of primary ovarian cancer cells , but not ovarian epithelial or borderline ovarian tumor cells , although these benign cells indeed respond to LPA in cell migration .
Although 5 - FU is often used for the treatment of oral carcinoma , there has not been any investigation into the expression of these enzymes in metastatic lymph nodes or of their roles in the effectiveness of 5 - FU in treating lymph node - metastatic cancer .
Notch signaling regulates intestinal development , homeostasis and tumorigenesis , but its precise downstream mechanism remains largely unknown .
There was positive correlation between PTEN mRNA expression and LOH of microsatellites in advanced gastric carcinomas .
On day 21 , all rats received 5 x 10 ( 5 ) hepatoma cells intrasplenically .
( 2 ) .
To characterize the effects of CK1delta on SV40 - induced mammary carcinogenesis , we generated transgenic mice expressing mutant CK1delta under the control of the whey acidic protein ( WAP ) gene promoter , and crossed them with SV40 transgenic WAP - T - antigen ( WAP - T ) mice .
At this time , the cells ' growth is arrested at very high density , and no differentiated morphologic characteristics are observed .
The biological properties of CCN proteins include stimulation of cell proliferation , migration , and adhesion , as well as angiogenesis and tumorigenesis .
CONCLUSIONS : The level of fibrinogen in patients with pancreatic carcinoma was elevated .
With the recent ability to clone capillary endothelial cells and to carry them in long - term culture , it has been possible to further delineate the mechanism of capillary growth .
Nitric oxide synthase inhibition results in synergistic anti - tumour activity with melphalan and tumour necrosis factor alpha - based isolated limb perfusions .
These data suggest that magnolol promoted apoptosis probably by alleviating the inhibitory effect of Akt on caspase 9 .
Twenty grafts without bone marrow were implanted as controls .
Although many studies have been carried out to investigate the chemopreventive role of flavonoids , less attention has been focused on phenolic acids .
To investigate how CSC contribute to tumor vascular development , we used an approach comparing tumor xenografts of the C6 glioma cell line containing either a low or a high fraction of CSC .
GM - CSF and IL - 2 vaccine therapy and pretreatment with gammaIFN represent effective strategies in reducing hepatic tumor .
Breast tissue taken at varying postoperative times ( n = 92 ) or during surgery ( controls , n = 17 ) , was used to investigate the temporal and spatial activity of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 during human wound healing .
The feasibility of such a strategy has now been established through the results of studies over the past decade , and a new discipline called therapeutic angiogenesis has emerged .
Positron emission tomography ( PET ) demonstrated a sixfold increased uptake of [ 11C ] methionine and hyperperfusion in the HPC , whereas glucose utilization was decreased in this area .
Prior to the appearances of frank neoplasms , volumetric changes in DMBA only and radiation only groups were similar , while volume changes in DMBA + radiation groups increased slowly to a peak later than in other groups and then declined steadily to levels similar to the radiation only group .
Instead of a traditional single - gene readout , global bioinformatics analysis was carried out , which revealed that the glycolysis pathway was the most significantly enriched pathway .
METHODS : The expression of five facilitative glucose transporters , Glut - 1 ( erythrocyte type ) , Glut - 2 ( liver type ) , Glut - 3 ( brain type ) , Glut - 4 ( muscle / fat type ) , and Glut - 5 ( small intestine type ) , was studied by immunohistochemistry of paraffin sections from 12 primary human breast cancers and 8 lymph node metastases from 2 patients .
Epithelial keratitis and corneal edema also developed in the immunized animals during the first week after virus challenge , but these symptoms rapidly resolved during the following weeks .
The discovery that this gene is also frequently mutated in human leukemia has increased the interest in the role that RUNX1 plays in both normal and transforming pathways .
Gross evaluation included shrinkage and stiffness .
Chemokine receptor CXCR4 expression , function , and clinical implications in gastric cancer .
Analysis of VLB cytotoxicity demonstrated a 3 - fold increase in VLB sensitivity in LoVo - mycANS cells .
This in vitro morphogenesis was inhibited by the addition of anti - sialyl Le ( x ) / Le ( a ) or anti - beta ( 1 ) - integrin antibodies , which led to the formation of cancer cell aggregates that were independent from the F - 2 cell networks .
We will demonstrate here that the level of the natural ocular anti - angiogenic agent PEDF is inversely associated with proliferative retinopathy .
Certain carcinostatic agents induce the expression of E - selectin on endothelial cells and enhance the expression of carbohydrate ligands on cancer cells .
Coexpression of the progesterone receptor with mutant K - Ras led to suppression of tumorigenicity and inhibition of the activation of ER .
Interestingly , c - Ski overexpression resulted in extensive acceleration of the growth of subcutaneous xenografts in BALB / c nu / nu female mice ( 6 weeks of age ) .
Together , these results suggest that Tip30 is an intrinsic and negative regulator of MEC proliferation partly through the inhibition of Wisp2 and Igf - 1 expression , and its absence in the mammary gland may predispose MECs to neoplastic transformation .
Both small RNAs contain a latency promoter binding factor consensus recognition sequence located toward their 5 ' ends as well as two potential ICP4 recognition consensus sequences , one in each orientation .
Treatment with 317615 x 2HCl alone increased the lifespan of animals bearing intraperitoneal SKOV - 3 xenografts by 1 . 9 fold compared with untreated control animals .
We also showed ICAM - 3 - induced cell migration and invasion in NCI - H460 NSCLC cells ( wild - type p53 and PTEN cell ) through the same signaling pathway .
Cells stably transformed by the Src oncogene tyrosine kinase were examined for STAT protein activation .
Our study reveals a hitherto unrecognized link between p53 and IFN - alpha / beta in tumour suppression and antiviral immunity , which may have therapeutic implications .
Over - expression of either rho gene was sufficient to confer anchorage - and serum - independent growth .
( c ) 2010 American Cancer Society .
PURPOSE : Members of the transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - beta superfamily play critical roles in regulation of various cellular functions .
Pancreatic somatostatin - secreting gangliocytic paraganglioma with lymph node metastases .
OBJECTIVE : Although DCC has been considered as a candidate tumor suppressor , the roles it plays in the uterine endometrium and in the carcinogenic process remains unclear .
In this review , we discuss the reported involvement of syndecans in human cancers , infectious diseases , obesity , wound healing and angiogenesis .
The average survival time of the RM - 9 - IL12 mice was longer than 53 days , whereas the mean survival for mice transplanted with control RM - 9 cells was only 16 days .
Atypically , abundant capillaries were observed ; however , the cystic proliferation of epithelioid cells with vacuoles and immunohistochemical profile of the epithelioid element were consistent with hepatic adenomatoid tumour .
RASSF1C down - regulates several pro - apoptotic and tumor suppressor genes and up - regulates several growth promoting genes in breast cancer cells .
RESULTS : PLGA microspheres with an open - porous structure were formed .
Affymetrix - microarray analysis was performed using T47D cells over - expressing RASSF1C to identify RASSF1C target genes .
There was also a significant correlation between VEGF - C and both of its receptors flt - 4 ( P = 0 . 006 ) and KDR ( P = 0 . 03 ) but no association between VEGF - B and its receptor flt - 1 ( P = 0 . 23 ) .
Historically , PDT has been limited by a lack of suitable photosensitive dyes .
Randomised placebo controlled trials have shown that the phosphodiesterase III inhibitor cilostazol 100mg bid improves pain - free and maximum walking distance , as well as quality of life , in a range of patients with intermittent claudication in whom there is no evidence of tissue necrosis or rest pain .
Overexpression of Bax inhibitor - 1 ( BI - 1 ) induces cell transformation in NIH3T3 cells .
A key factor in the response of cancer cells to chemotherapeutic drugs is the activation of the apoptotic pathway , a pathway that is often impaired in chemoresistant colon cancer cells .
The expression of MMP - 2 / 9 of AGS cells was inhibited by 2 . 0 microM of GA .
Therapeutic angiogenesis : a complex problem requiring a sophisticated approach .
We have investigated the putative role of rho proteins from Aplysia californica as transforming GTPases utilizing the wild - type and a Val - 14 mutant , equivalent to the oncogenic Val - 12 mutation of ras genes found in animal and human tumors .
Suppression of PIM - 1 activity had a negligible effect on transformation .
The review is focused on the participation of polymorphonuclear granulocytes ( neutrophils ) in development and spreading of a tumor .
However , there is no report to show that DATS induced apoptosis in vitro and inhibited CT26 cancer cells in vivo on a murine allograft animal model .
This observed genomic instability will be of value in predicting the potential metastatic behavior of these aggressive pituitary tumors .
We show examples in which p53 gene induction by IFN - alpha / beta contributes to tumour suppression .
After GM - CSF or IL - 3 , a 1 . 2 - to 2 . 4 - fold increase in S - phase cells was observed in nine of 14 GM - CSF and seven of 11 IL - 3 cases .
Fibroblasts of the host animal may thus have an important role in generating enhanced metastatic activity of H - 3 cells .
PURPOSE : To report on bevacizumab treatment for radiation retinopathy affecting the macula .
NIH3T3 transfectant containing human K - ras oncogene shows enhanced metastatic activity after in vivo tumor growth or co - culture with fibroblasts .
The restriction of BRCA1 promoter region hypermethylation to breast and ovarian cancer is consistent with a pathogenetic role of BRCA1 promoter methylation in these tumours .
Clinical data on bevacizumab is discussed in detail .
Transforming growth factor - beta1 enhances tumour vascularization and microvessel maturation .
Expressions of KISS1 mRNA and protein were significantly higher in low TNM stages of NSCLC ( I - II ) compared to more advanced stages ( III - IV ) ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
In vivo , LPA stimulates tumor metastasis in an orthotopic ovarian tumor model , which can be inhibited by a PI3K inhibitor , LY294002 .
We have evaluated the effect of thalidomide on VEGF secretion , cell migration , adhesion as well as in capillary formation of human endothelial cell line EA . hy 926 .
BACKGROUND : Vascular adhesion protein - 1 ( VAP - 1 ) regulates leukocyte tissue infiltration .
The mechanism of this potent collaboration is elucidated in this study of Runx2 / MYC mice .
Most primary human melanomas exhibit loss of expression of the CDKN2A locus in addition to activation of the canonical mitogen - activated protein kinase signaling pathway .
Measuring ouabain - sensitive 22Na efflux and using ouabain - sensitive lactate production as a measure of ATP hydrolysis by the Na + K + pump , it was shown that Nonidet P - 40 greatly decreased the efficiency of the Na + K + pump .
BACKGROUND : Survivin is a novel inhibitor of apoptosis commonly detected in tissues during fetal development and in cancer , but not usually in normal tissues .
Rise in lactate concentrations over baseline levels in the first 30 minutes of the glucose tolerance test were significantly higher in dogs with lymphoma ( P = 0 . 011 ) .
METHODS : Grafted animals for corneal survival analysis were assigned to receive either spironolactone suspension ( orally , 100 mg / kg / day , n = 7 ) , phosphate - buffered saline ( PBS , orally , same volume as spironolactone , n = 9 ) or remained untreated ( n = 16 ) .
The particular characteristics of these alterations , 80 % of which are missense mutations leading to functionally heterogeneous proteins , make p53 a unique gene in the class of tumor suppressor genes .
In contrast , NIH 3T3 cells are non - tumorigenic but are ras - responsive and become metastatic when transfected with ras .
Pretreatment with DMI followed by combination of DMI and FA decreased GR - mediated transcription more than pretreatment with FA .
Keratinocyte progenitor cells from TPA - treated Tg . AC mice were isolated with fluorescence - activated cell sorting and expression was analyzed using cDNA microarray technology .
The formation of functional units with these various proteins allows the uPAR to mediate the focused proteolysis required for cell migration and invasion and to contribute both directly and indirectly to cell adhesive processes in a non - proteolytic fashion .
Increased levels of PAI - 1 were associated with a decreased survival in squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) X2 = 5 . 72 , p = 0 . 017 ( n = 74 ) .
RESULTS : VEGF - C expression was higher in lymphatic metastasis group ( PI = 12 . 169 + / - 2 . 778 ) than in no - metastasis group ( PI = 8 . 498 + / - 2 . 674 , P < 0 . 05 ) .
BMP expression and activation was measured by PCR and reporter assays .
BACKGROUND & # 38 ; OBJECTIVE : Previous study shows that both vascular endothelial growth - C ( VEGF - C ) and tumor - associated macrophages ( TAMs ) are related to lymphatic metastasis .
We also found an increase of tumor growth and lung metastasis count in TB4 - Tg mice as compared to wildtype mice .
MATERIAL AND METHODS : Human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVEC ) were treated with cisplatin and endothelial cell migration analyzed by fluorescence and scratch - wound migration assay .
Dominant negative interference of transcription factor AP - 2 causes inhibition of ErbB - 3 expression and suppresses malignant cell growth .
The findings suggest that elevated serum levels of S - 100beta , IL - 6 and IL - 10 reflect concurrent liver or bone metastases in melanoma .
CXCR4 transcripts and proteins were detectable in all five gastric cancer cell lines .
Pathologic conditions included dystrophia , moderate dysplasia , severe dysplasia , and intraepithelial carcinoma .
One mechanism by which alpha - MSH exerts its effects is modulation of AP - 1 and NF - kappa B .
In the present study , a novel inhibitor of angiogenesis was synthesized by covalently linking a nonanticoagulating derivative of heparin , heparin adipic hydrazide ( HAH ) , by an acid - labile bond to the antiangiogenic steroid , cortisol .
Despite intensive investigations , the target genes of c - myb that are specifically involved in development of these myeloid lineage neoplasms are still unknown .
Using human neuroblastoma cell line , SK - N - MC , we found that treatment of these cells with FGF - 2 resulted in early induction of both Id - 1 mRNA and protein .
The tumor apoptosis was observed by electron microscopy .
In the colon carcinoma experiment , mean permeability and perfusion decreased by 51 % ( from 5 . 2 + / - 1 . 1 to 2 . 5 + / - 0 . 8 ml / 100 ml ) and 59 % ( from 0 . 00165 + / - 5 . 1 to 0 . 0067 + / - 4 . 8 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) of tissue ) , respectively , in all animals after antiangiogenic drug administration .
Thrombospondin - 1 ( TSP - 1 ) is a potent angiogenesis inhibitor , and down - regulation of TSP - 1 has been suggested to alter tumor growth by modulating angiogenesis in a variety of tumor types .
Transformation of primary cells in cultures requires both overcoming growth arrest by stimulating the cell cycle and blocking cell death activities presumably activated by oncogene - mediated hyperproliferation signals .
Interestingly , the high glutamine uptake was maintained in the presence of glucose .
The E7 oncoprotein of bovine papillomavirus type 1 ( BPV - 1 ) is required for the full transformation activity of the virus .
Oocytes in double - mutant females showed normal localization of brca2 and pou5f1 transcripts to the animal pole and vasa transcripts to the vegetal pole , but had a polarized rather than symmetrical nucleus with the distribution of nucleoli and chromosomes to opposite nuclear poles ; this result revealed a novel role for Brca2 in establishing or maintaining oocyte nuclear architecture .
The molecular basis of this behaviour could be related to different locations for the lactate dehydrogenase isoenzymes , as suggested by their immunohistochemical labelling .
We have previously shown that IFI16 is required for proinflammatory gene stimulation by IFN - gamma through the NF - kappaB complex .
Molecular analysis of genetic instability caused by chronic inflammation .
Experiments with a temperature - sensitive mutant of Rous sarcoma virus demonstrated that a single oncogene product is sufficient to inhibit the synthesis .
METHODS : We assessed antiapoptotic and proapoptotic markers in vascular and perivascular cells in lung biopsy samples from 18 patients with CHD , 7 with reversible and 11 with irreversible PHT , and 6 control patients .
The construction of animals doubly mutant for brca2 and the apoptotic gene tp53 ( p53 ) rescued brca2 - dependent sex reversal .
The proteins with differential expression were analyzed in 40 undifferentiated NPC paraffin - embedded specimens .
Our observations indicate that combined inactivation of PIM - 1 and PIM - 2 interferes with oncogenic PTKs and suggest that PIMs are alternative therapeutic targets in PTK - mediated leukemia .
Age - related impaired wound healing leads to substantial morbidity and mortality along with a large financial burden to health services .
These results strongly suggested that the BI - 1 gene might play a crucial role in neoplastic genesis and development .
In contrast , the growth of tumors requires constant vascular growth and remodeling in order for solid tumors to grow beyond 1 - 2 mm ( 3 ) in size .
Given that PLCbeta3 is typically known as an effector of heterotrimeric G - proteins , our data demonstrate a unique crosstalk between the G - protein and receptor tyrosine kinase ( RTK ) axes and reveal a novel molecular mechanism of VEGF signaling and , thus , angiogenesis .
Our study reveals a novel link between HMGA2 and the regulation of human telomerase reverse transcriptase ( hTERT ) , the catalytic subunit of telomerase , which offers critical insight into how HMGA2 contributes to tumorigenesis .
RESULTS : The MMP / TIMP profile defined by hierarchical cluster analysis of the immunohistochemical score identifies a distinct group of colorectal cancers with poor prognosis ( log - rank test , 12 . 22 , P = 0 . 0005 ) .
However , the role of IL - 8 in non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma ( NHL ) has not been fully determined .
After 7 months median visual acuity ( VA ) was 20 / 160 for the irradiated and 20 / 400 for the untreated patients .
Here , we show that natural and synthetic progestins also induce thrombospondin - 1 ( TSP - 1 ) mRNA and protein in T47 - D and BT - 474 breast cancer cells .
The nonspecific character of these pathways led us to hypothesize that circulating cancer cells use similar mechanisms , promoting secondary tumor formation at distal sites .
CD40 engagement by CD154 did not affect apoptosis or survival .
p63 - positive carcinomas were poorly differentiated , hormone receptor - negative neoplasms with a high proliferation rate .
Human cervical cancer cells ( CaSki and SiHa ) were injected into the flanks of nude mice .
A series of epithelial cell lines and a single fibroblast cell line established in this way were analysed for the presence of transforming genes by DNA transfection into NIH3T3 cells .
CONCLUSIONS : PLGA microspheres with an open porous structure allowed significant amount of heparin immobilization and bFGF loading .
NO is synthesized through three isoforms of NO synthase ( NOS ) .
We have found that sanguinarine alters the morphology and reduces the viability of MG - 63 and SaOS - 2 human osteosarcoma cell lines in concentration - and time - dependent manner .
Daily i . v . injections of HAH - cortisol at doses causing no apparent toxicity retarded the growth of solid s . c .
Invasion of the human melanoma cell line , BLM , was also attenuated by the anti - PAI - 1 monoclonal antibody MAI - 12 .
TEL is biallelically disrupted in acute leukemia , and loss of heterozygosity at the TEL locus has been observed in various cancers .
[ Effects of carcinostatic agents in the hematogenous metastasis of cancer ] .
As in prior studies , there were significant vascular volume differences between DMBA and DMBA + radiation groups of tumor - bearing cheek pouches .
We investigated the presence of COUP - TFII in human colorectal cancer tissues and adjacent normal tissues from 95 primary colorectal cancer patients by immunohistochemistry .
A reduction and not an increase in tumor glucose availability could be a more appropriate strategy for the induction of energy failure in tumors .
Under the conditions used , peroxide - induced conversion of GSH to GSSG could be stoichiometrically reversed by resupplying D - glucose , indicating that no significant lysis or GSSG efflux and / or interchange had taken place .
Under conditions mimicking the injection environment , the lipoplex - serum interaction was strongly dependent on helper lipid and ionic strength : lipoplexes prepared in 150 mM NaCl or lipoplexes with high ( greater than 33 mol % ) cholesterol were found to aggregate immediately .
PURPOSE : To describe visual acuity and angiographic outcomes of juxtafoveal choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) treated with photodynamic therapy and verteporfin ( PDT ) .
To our knowledge , this is the first study to evaluate the effects of 2ME2 in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
We conclude that the transforming properties of the activated Ha - ras gene in Rat - 1 cells can be suppressed at the post - translational level by the presence of the genome from diploid embryonic rat fibroblasts but additional controls of expression of the transforming gene are likely to exist .
VEGF165 or AdCMV . beta gal ( 2 x 10 ( 10 ) pfu ) was resuspended in 0 . 5 mL Matrigel and injected subcutaneously into mice .
Western blot analysis of involved hematologic tissues of the p190 del C transgenics with end - stage disease showed high - level expression of the transgene and tyrosine phosphorylation of Cbl and Hef1 / Cas , proteins previously shown to be affected by Bcr / Abl .
In contrast , cancer cells depend mostly on glycolysis , the aerobic breakdown of glucose into ATP .
These findings have suggested that diabetes mellitus may have a different action on retinal and coronary circulation .
The tumor vascular network is the result of pro - angiogenic and inhibitory factors as well as of the interaction between endothelial cells and extracellular matrix .
Is it possible that CD47 may also negatively affect cerebral endothelial cells ?
They do not compete with 125I EGF for binding on the EGF receptors of the membrane of A431 cells .
Grossly , these tumors were small and had few feeding vessels .
To address this , the Severe Chronic Neutropenia International Registry ( SCNIR ) used its large database of chronic neutropenia patients treated with G - CSF to determine the incidence of malignant myeloid transformation in the two disorders , and its relationship to treatment and to other patient characteristics .
RESULTS : VEGF expression was observed in 58 . 3 % , and p53 protein expression was observed in 61 . 7 % of the 60 patients .
This review will discuss the regulation of expression of IGF - 1 , IGF - 1R , and IGF binding proteins in the vasculature and summarize evidence implicating involvement of this system in vascular diseases .
However , tumor incidence was lower and life span was significantly longer in WAP - mutCK1delta / WAP - T bi - transgenic animals .
Our recent studies show that progestins induce vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) in breast cancer cells that express mutant p53 protein .
Intrauterine growth restriction ( IUGR ) still accounts for a large incidence of infant mortality and morbidity worldwide .
These studies support a role of both systems in adipogenesis and obesity ; the role of specific members of these families , however , remains to be determined .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) - induced receptor phosphorylation is the crucial step for initiating downstream signaling pathways that lead to angiogenesis or related pathophysiological outcomes .
This suggests that FOXO3a is a potential suppressor of carcinogenic damage in LAC .
In immunohistochemical analysis , rk - 2 reduced expression of vascular endothelial growth factor , which is a potent angiogenic activator and neovascularization in the mouse lung .
Incubation with 1 micromol / L sanguinarine for 4 and 24h killed more efficiently MG - 63 cells than SaOS - 2 cells , while incubation with 5 micromol / L sanguinarine killed almost 100 % of both cell populations within 24h .
RESULTS : The bone grafts were found revascularization in 3 days after surgery in the test group , whereas at 2 weeks in the control group .
In the present study , we investigated the antiangiogenic mechanism of 3 , 6 - di ( 2 , 3 - epoxypropoxy ) xanthone ( EPOX ) , a novel Mcl - 1 targeting drug .
PURPOSE : Neovascularization has profound effects on tumor growth and metastasis .
An N - terminal segment containing the first 127 T - antigen amino acids ( T1 - 127 ) was sufficient to sensitize cells .
RESULTS : The final visual acuity of the study patients , after a median follow - up of 31 months , improved by greater than or = 1 Snellen lines in 8 patients ( 13 % ) , deteriorated in 20 ( 32 % ) , and remained stable in 34 ( 55 % ) .
An immunohistochemical study .
Human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) and rat aorta smooth muscle cells ( RASMCs ) infected with AdCMV . VEGF165 ( 5 and 20 plaque - forming units [ pfu ] per cell ) demonstrated VEGF mRNA expression and protein secretion into the supernatant .
We have modelled multiple stages of malignant transformation of human endothelial cells ( ECs ) by overexpressing the catalytic subunit of human telomerase ( hTERT ) , together with SV40 T antigen ( SV40T ) and oncogenic N - ras .
Betulin , unlike its chemical derivative betulinic acid , did not directly trigger mitochondrial cytochrome c release in isolated mitochondria .
3H - Cytosine arabinoside incorporation into the DNA was enhanced 1 . 33 - to 18 . 3 - fold over respective controls in 14 of 17 patients .
The intensity of MDM2 staining was not significant .
PURPOSE : Tumor fibroblasts ( TF ) have been suggested to play an essential role in the complex process of tumor - stroma interactions and tumorigenesis .
A 71 - year - old woman was admitted to our hospital because of breathlessness .
We previously characterized a secreted fibroblast growth factor - binding protein ( FGF - BP ) as a chaperone molecule , which binds to various FGFs , enhances FGF - mediated biochemical and biologic events and importantly is a crucial rate - limiting factor for tumor - dependent angiogenesis .
So we established that these pathways were crucial to endothelial cell proliferation under vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and fibroblast growth factor ( FGF ) stimulation .
The tyrosine kinase inhibitor cediranib blocks ligand - induced vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 3 activity and lymphangiogenesis .
The update information testifies about protumoral activity of neutrophils : they migrate to a tumor and promote angiogenesis and metastasis at late stages of the tumor .
In contrast , the incidence and density of somatostatin receptors in peritumoral vessels was low in well - differentiated gastrointestinal and bronchial carcinoids , in contrast to the high density of such receptors in the carcinoid tumor tissue .
Abnormal beta - catenin expression was associated significantly with positive 14 - 3 - 3zeta expression .
TEL bound sequences in the stromelysin - 1 promoter and repressed the promoter in transient - expression assays , suggesting that it is a direct target for TEL - mediated regulation .
Expression of AQP5 was associated with cellular differentiation , lymph node invasion , and clinicopathological staging .
Overall , this work verified zebrafish as a model for the role of Brca2 in human disease and uncovered a novel function of Brca2 in vertebrate oocyte nuclear architecture .
These studies thus identify p600 as a shared target of the E7 proteins of multiple papillomaviruses .
These processes are regulated by numerous pro - angiogenic and anti - angiogenic growth factors .
The antisense oligomers complementary to the ER suppressed proliferation and transformed phenotypes of K12V cells .
Our data align osteonectin with other matrix - components and adhesion molecules in affecting potential metastatic spreading of transformed cells .
HYPOTHESIS : We speculate that there is a burst of angiogenesis of distant dormant micrometastases after surgery in approximately 20 % of premenopausal node - positive patients .
METHODOLOGY AND RESULTS : In this study , we demonstrate the molecular mechanism of M - CSF - induced VEGF production .
L - deoxyribose ( L - dR ) and thymidine phosphorylase inhibitor ( TPI ) can reverse these effects .
The soluble factors they release in its presence arrest the cycle of endothelial cells ( EC ) , inhibit in vitro angiogenesis , negatively modulate the production of matrix metalloproteinase - 9 , and the ability of EC to adhere to vitronectin and up - regulate ICAM - 1 and VCAM - 1 expression .
The erbA / myb IRES virus exhibited a 5 - 10 - fold higher transformed colony forming efficiency than the erbA IRES virus in the blastoderm assay .
Tsg101 is upregulated in a subset of invasive human breast cancers and its targeted overexpression in transgenic mice reveals weak oncogenic properties for mammary cancer initiation .
The incidence of high - grade lesions ( high - grade dysplasia / carcinoma in situ and invasive adenocarcinoma ) in the folate - supplemented group was 46 % lower than that in the control group ( 35 . 3 % versus 65 . 1 % , P = 0 . 009 ) .
Elevated vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) secretion by malignant cells enhanced recruitment of endothelial cells ( EC ) in heterotypic cocultures .
The frequency of elevated bFGF values among all groups was statistically significant ( p = 0 . 002 ) , and the levels of bFGF in RDEB patients were significantly elevated compared with those of other groups ( p less than 0 . 05 ) .
These included 40 ( 56 % ) metastases from a primary lung carcinoma and 31 ( 44 % ) metastases from some nonpulmonary carcinoma .
The cells invasion was demonstrated by transwell assay .
The fibrinolytic ( plasminogen / plasmin ) and matrix metalloproteinase ( MMP ) systems cooperate in these processes .
CONCLUSIONS : Indocyanine green dye - enhanced photocoagulation of CNV feeder vessels , facilitated by use of a device that permits real - time visualization of the choroidal circulation while aiming the treatment laser beam , appears to minimize the amount of energy applied to the fundus and the volume of fundus tissue affected by treatment , compared with other treatment modalities .
The cells were labeled with luciferase , a bioluminescence imaging reporter gene , to enable optical imaging .
It is interesting that certain components of neutrophil cytotoxic arsenal ( ROS , cytokines , specific enzymes ) participate both in antitumoral defenses of an organism and protumoral activity .
The aim of this study was to ascertain the potential usefulness of the antiangiogenic compound linomide for treatment of von Hippel - Lindau ( VHL ) - related tumors .
HSP27 is implicated in protein - protein interactions such as folding , translocation , and prevention of inappropriate protein aggregation .
RESULTS : SPARC expression was mainly in the stromal cells surrounding the colon cancer , and was significant difference in those tissues with the lymph node metastasis and differentiation degree of tumor .
The direct addition of all - trans - RA to conditioned medium had no effect on secreted collagenase activity .
Our data suggest that p - XSC inhibits multiple signaling pathways in prostate cancer , likely accounting for the downstream effects on proliferation and apoptosis .
However FOXO3a induction has little effect on cell proliferation , indicating that FOXO3a or its downstream activity is deregulated in the cytotoxic drug resistant breast cancer cells .
Active SHP - 2 then dephosphorylates VEGFR - 2 at Y951 , Y996 and Y1059 , but not Y1175 .
FVIIa markedly decreased the number of cells with apoptotic morphology and prevented the DNA degradation as measured by means of TdT - mediated dUTP nick end labeling ( TUNEL ) .
Depletion of polyphenol with polyvinylpyrrolidone abolished the antiangiogenic activity of GSE , suggesting a water - soluble fraction of polyphenol in GSE is responsible for the antiangiogenic activity .
Cediranib ( RECENTIN ; AZD2171 ) is an inhibitor of VEGF signaling that has been shown in experimental models to prevent VEGF - A - induced angiogenesis and primary tumor growth , yet the effects of cediranib on VEGF receptor ( VEGFR ) - 3 - mediated endothelial cell function and lymphangiogenesis are unknown .
Here we show that UV - B can induce interleukin 8 ( IL - 8 ) mRNA and protein secretion in human cutaneous melanoma with negligible expression of IL - 8 .
Histological analysis demonstrated the presence of blood vessels throughout the soft connective tissue in the distraction gap .
Cancer cells secrete soluble factors which can induce proliferation and migration of capillary endothelial cells .
Two of the mutations included a G to C substitution at codon 12 , and a G to A substitution at codon 18 , resulting in a glycine to arginine , and an alanine to threonine change at these amino acids , respectively .
The aim of this study is to investigate ( 1 ) whether expression of COX - 2 and PPARgamma is associated with ovarian carcinogenesis and progression of ovarian tumours and ( 2 ) whether COX - 2 expression is controlled through ligand - mediated activation of PPARgamma in ovarian carcinoma cells .
A 4 . 0 kb mRNA of the murine UFO homolog is expressed in a variety of different mouse tissues .
Although it is well known that Wnt signaling is frequently dysregulated in melanoma , the functional implications of this observation are unclear .
uPAR is also coexpressed with caveolin and members of the integrin adhesion receptor superfamily .
This implies that enhancing Nrf2 activity is a promising method for thwarting cancer .
At the cellular level many actions of thrombin can contribute to activation of angiogenesis : ( 1 ) .
However , the regulation of adipose tissue angiogenesis in humans has not been extensively studied .
Large lesions with relatively good visual acuity ( 20 / 50 or better ) may be at particular risk for marked vision loss following verteporfin administration .
Coagulation function in patients with pancreatic carcinoma .
Marked angiogenesis is induced by implantation of a chamber containing RENCA cells into mice .
Administration of 317615 x 2HCI orally twice daily to nude mice bearing subcutaneous MX - 1 tumors or SKOV - 3 tumors resulted in a decreased number of intratumoral vessels as determined by CD31 and CD105 staining with decreases of 35 % and 43 % in MX - 1 tumors and 60 % and 75 % in SKOV - 3 tumors , respectively .
One additional event that appears to play a role in tumor progression is integration of HPV DNA into the host genome .
The capacity of insulin to stimulate the VEGF promoter linked to a luciferase reporter gene was characterized in transient transfection assays .
Since Akt phosphorylates Chk1 - Ser ( 280 ) , the effect of Erbb2 on phosphatidyl inositol - 3 - kinase ( PI3K ) / Akt signaling during UV - induced cell cycle arrest was determined .
The low apoptosis phenotype is dominant in Runx2 / MYC tumors , indicating that Runx2 confers a potent survival advantage to MYC - expressing tumor cells .
Western blotting analysis showed that liposomal honokiol - inhibited Akt and MAPK phosphorylation in 2 endothelial cells , and downregulated expressions of VEGFR - 2 of human vascular endothelial cells and VEGFR - 3 of lymphatic endothelial cells .
Western blotting of p53 and murine double mutant 2 ( Mdm2 ) together with p53 DNA sequencing analysis indicate that p53 function loss by mutation or overexpression of Mdm2 occurred in all tested oral cancer cells regardless of their etiology .
PLD activity has been shown to be significantly elevated in many tumours and transformed cells , suggesting the possibility that PLD might be involved in tumorigenesis .
The present study revealed that androgen increases glucose utilization for de novo lipogenesis in LNCaP cells through the activation of HK2 ( hexokinase 2 ) and activation of the cardiac isoform of PFKFB2 ( 6 - phosphofructo - 2 - kinase / fructose - 2 , 6 - bisphosphatase ) .
Swainsonine caused a great distortion to the vasculature at 18 weeks .
Gliomas are the most common primary tumours of the central nervous system , with nearly 15 , 000 diagnosed annually in the United States and a lethality approaching 80 % within the first year of glioblastoma diagnosis .
Paclitaxel treatment resulted in MAPK activation and apoptosis of MDA - MB - 231 breast cancer cells , and both processes were inhibited by Dex pretreatment .
Thrombospondins , metallo proteases and thrombospondin receptors messenger RNA and protein expression in different tumour sublines of the Dunning prostate cancer model .
Cytogenetic examination of Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) p21 ( - / - ) sarcomas and lymphomas revealed aneuploidy and chromosomal aberrations that were absent in Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) malignancies .
[ Prognostic significance of cellular vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression in the course of chronic myeloid leukaemia ]
Lack of IL - 17F did not reverse the splenomegaly but partially restored thymic atrophy , suggesting a local effect of IL - 17F in the intestine .
It is regulated by numerous angiogenic factors , one of the most important being vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
It involves endothelial cell activation , basal membrane degradation , leukocyte invasion , proliferation of vascular cells , neointima formation ( in most species studied ) , and changes of the extracellular matrix .
Compared with their corresponding single mutant littermates , the p18 ( - / - ) ; Men1 ( + / - ) mice develop tumors at an accelerated rate and with an increased incidence in the pituitary , thyroid , parathyroid , and pancreas .
Both B and T lymphocytes diversify their antigen receptors through RAG1 / 2 mediated recombination , but B cells undergo two additional processes - - somatic hypermutation ( SHM ) and class - switch recombination ( CSR ) , both initiated by activation - induced cytidine deaminase ( AID ) .
It was also shown by our studies that apoptosis was induced in DU - 145 prostate carcinoma cells with significant cytotoxicity , no matter which agent applied first .
We now report direct evidence that N1 ( ic ) must accumulate in the nucleus to induce transformation of RKE cells .
The correlation between the expression of COUP - TFII and clinicopathologic features was investigated .
The Hedgehog intercellular signaling pathway regulates cell proliferation and differentiation .
Reduced oxygen tension has been shown to increase VEGF production by induction of the transcription factor hypoxia inducible factor 1 alpha ( HIF - 1alpha ) .
The short - term response of Swiss 3T3 cells to an activator of protein kinase C also appeared to be independent of growth state , since the 50 % effective dose for PDBu inhibition of EGF binding to its receptor was approximately 7 nM for both growth conditions .
Expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA increased in 33 of 41 colon tumors , and expression of nm23 - H2 mRNA was elevated in 28 of 41 colon tumors relative to that in matched normal mucosa .
The incidence of high - grade lesions in the folate - deficient group was also 49 % lower than that in the control group ( 33 . 3 % versus 65 . 1 % , P = 0 . 007 ) .
CONCLUSION : In MEN II A patients undergoing prophylactic thyroidectomy , baseline but not stimulated calcitonin levels already correlate with the histologic tumor stage at the stage of clinically occult C - cell hyperplasia or medullary microcarcinoma .
Patients ' reading vision could not be saved for a long - term run .
We found that induction of one splicing variant of WT1 [ WT1 - 17AA ( + ) - KTS ( - ) ] in M1 cells induces cell cycle arrest and apoptotic cell death .
The reference intervals for serum IL - 8 and urine IL - 8 corrected by creatinine ( Cr ) were 15 . 9 - 430 . 3 pg / mL and 0 . 0 - 28 . 4 pg / mg Cr , respectively .
Cancer stem cells ( CSC ) are predicted to be critical drivers of tumor progression due to their self - renewal capacity and limitless proliferative potential .
We also speculate that this synchronizes them into a temporal highly chemosensitive state and is the underlying reason why adjuvant chemotherapy works particularly well for that patient category .
The inhibiting mutants , including the Rb binding site mutant , were able to promote a higher state of Rb phosphorylation than that observed in either normal cells or cytoplasmic - SVLT transformants .
Topoisomerase I ( topo I ) is an important target for the treatment of malignant disease , especially colorectal cancer .
Various cellular kinases , among them members of the CK1 family , play an important role in modulating the transforming activity of SV40 , including the transforming activity of T - Ag , the major transforming protein of SV40 , itself .
Moreover , when introduced into nude mice , selected clones generated from either gene were able to induce tumors , although those carrying the mutated version were more efficient .
Inhibition of MAP kinase kinase ( MEK ) during this sustained alphavbeta3 - dependent ERK signal blocked the formation of new blood vessels while not influencing preexisting blood vessels on the CAM .
The presence of microvascular proliferation leads to the histological diagnosis of glioblastoma multiforme .
We assessed the effects of these mutations on the ability of the v - fos protein to transform chicken embryo fibroblasts and to stimulate cellular proliferation of chicken neuroretinal cells .
We tested the hypothesis that vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , an endothelial cell mitogen and a major regulator of angiogenesis , is upregulated in response to low heart rate and consequential increased stroke volume .
Tumor size , serosal invasion , lymph node metastasis , peritoneal dissemination , and TNM classification was significantly correlated with sVAP - 1 level .
In addition , Brk1 downregulation results in defective directional migration and invasive growth in renal cell carcinoma cells as well as in other tumor cell types .
The p53 protein functions to prevent tumour development by inhibiting the outgrowth of stressed or damaged cells .
Liver tissue spaces , investigated with multiple indicator dilution technique in liver perfusion studies , were unchanged at week 3 after tumor induction .
A clone of NIH3T3 transformant ( H - 3 ) , obtained by transfecting genomic DNA of a human colon carcinoma cell line , contains human K - ras oncogene and yields metastatic pulmonary nodules after intravenous injection of the cells into nude mice .
CONCLUSIONS : SREBP is activated during and plays a critical role in ECs migration .
The main purpose of the present investigation was to study the effect of a homologous series of 1 - alkylpyrrolidine N - oxides on ATP - producing processes in Ehrlich ascites and L1210 murine leukemia cells .
Directed EC migration is a central step in this process and depends on cellular signaling cascades that initiate and control the structural rearrangements .
There was no difference in fat encapsulation , necrosis , hemorrhage , or exudate between prostheses .
This resulted in a substantial increase in P185neu expression , which led to the formation of progressively growing carcinomas after such cells were inoculated into athymic nude mice .
Different antiangiogenic therapeutics have been developed to improve tumor control through vascular - targeting agents ( VTA ) .
Knockdown of PLCbeta3 in HUVEC cells affects IP3 production , actin reorganization , migration and proliferation ; whereas migration is inhibited , proliferation is enhanced .
By ruling out cell fusion , we clearly demonstrate the existence of an adult hemangioblast , but the differentiation of marrow stem cells toward the endothelial lineage is an extremely rare event .
Despite an increase in the activation of these signal transducers , the mammary gland of females expressing exogenous Tsg101 developed normally throughout the reproductive cycle .
Furthermore , the expression of PECAM - 1 promoted filopodia formation and increased the protein expression levels of Cdc42 , a Rho GTPase that is known to promote the formation of filopodia .
MMP2 and MMP9 activity were determined by zymographic assay , and MAPK activation by Western blotting analysis .
Since glucose phosphorylation is the first step in glycolysis , hexokinase ( HK ) , the first rate limiting glycolytic enzyme , can play a key regulatory role in this process .
These results show that magnolol initiates apoptosis via the cytochrome - c / caspase 3 / PARP / AIF and PTEN / Akt / caspase 9 / PARP pathways and necrosis via PARP activation .
However , development of consumption coagulopathy characterized by progression from hypercoagulable state to disseminated intravascular coagulation has also been found in several cases .
Matrix metalloproteinase activity and immunohistochemical profile of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 during human dermal wound healing .
IL - 8 may present a novel therapeutic target for estrogen driven breast carcinogenesis and tumor progression .
AKT2 is a downstream target of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 ( Grm1 ) .
These findings also illustrate an operational link between VPF / VEGF induction of EC gene expression and VPF / VEGF enhancement of microvascular permeability , suggesting that these distinct biological activities may act accordingly to stimulate EC migration during angiogenesis .
It has also been demonstrated that MTSS1 is involved in the Shh signaling pathway in the developing hair follicle and in basal cell carcinomas of the skin .
Their correlation with lymph node metastasis and the predictability of lymph node metastases , by combining these factors , were also discussed .
Through morphological and biochemical analyses , it was demonstrated that NCI - H1299 cells treated with BV exhibit several features of apoptosis .
Effects of 4 - alkylmorpholine N - oxides on ATP - producing processes in Ehrlich ascites and L1210 leukaemia cells .
In these cells , SDF - 1alpha - induced migration was observed and was blocked by AMD3100 , a specific inhibitor of CXCR4 .
Capillary diameters increased significantly during pregnancy , especially after 4 weeks , when large flattened sinusoids formed .
Interestingly , we find that the deletion of miR - BHRF1 - 2 reduced the expression level of miR - BHRF1 - 3 and possibly that of miR - BHRF1 - 1 , demonstrating that the expression of one miRNA can potentiate the expression of other miRNAs located in the same cluster .
CCL16 may be specifically cross - linked to CCR1 expressed on endothelial cells .
Interestingly , the level of cyclin D3 protein , known as an activator of G ( 1 ) to S phase transition in the cell cycle , was aberrantly high in cells overexpressing PLD1 and PLD2 compared with control cells .
Interestingly , both INK4 genes express alternative splicing variants .
Compared with control animals transfected with LacZ , site - specific transfection of phVEGF resulted in augmented collateral vessel development documented by serial angiography , and improvement in calf blood pressure ratio ( ischemic to normal limb ) , resting and maximum blood flow , and capillary to myocyte ratio .
The cyclin - dependent kinase inhibitor p21WAF1 level was found to be decreased within 12 h of ciprofloxacin treatment and disappeared completely when HTB9 cells were treated with 200 microg / ml ciprofloxacin for 24 h .
RESULTS : The positive c - kit protein expression and c - kit gene mutation rates were 97 . 6 % ( 80 / 82 ) and 41 . 5 % ( 34 / 82 ) .
Aflibercept ( AVE0005 ) : an alternative strategy for inhibiting tumour angiogenesis by vascular endothelial growth factors .
These immortally transformed cells ( KMST - 6 ) showed no clonability in soft agar and were not tumorigenic .
CONCLUSIONS : Intravitreal bevacizumab can be used to treat radiation retinopathy .
Intriguingly , two recent papers have shed new light into this unexplored field , indicating that p53 plays a key role in TGF - beta - induced growth arrest and , unexpectedly , in the developmental effects of TGF - beta in early embryos .
The grafts were implanted in the abdominal aortic position of 24 dogs autologously .
Here we report that infusion of Ang II significantly increases circulating levels of sFlt - 1 in pregnant mice , thereby demonstrating that Ang II is a regulator of sFlt - 1 secretion in vivo .
In both of the other two cases , the patterns of X - chromosome inactivation clearly demonstrated the presence of independent primary tumors .
These results suggest that in leukemic cells N - glycosylation of Glut - 1 plays an important role in maintaining its structure and functional integration .
Pathological animal models in the experimental evaluation of tumour microvasculature with magnetic resonance imaging .
Insufficient angiogenesis occurs in diseases such as coronary artery disease , stroke and chronic wounds .
In addition , ischemia induces expression of HIF1alpha in hypoxic tissue .
It is also involved in the regulation of immune reactions , hematopoiesis and inflammatory state .
Bovine capillary endothelial cells are also stimulated to actively migrate when exposed to EGF in vitro .
Roles of cell adhesion molecules mediating the interaction of cancer and endothelial cells in tumor angiogenesis were investigated using new in vitro and in vivo model systems with a cultured murine endothelial cell line ( F - 2 ) and human cultured epidermoid cancer cells ( A431 ) .
Minimal contribution of marrow - derived endothelial precursors to tumor vasculature .
Among the most potent of the angiogenic factors is vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
The breast epithelium comprises cells at different stages of differentiation , including stem cells , progenitor cells , and more differentiated epithelial and myoepithelial cells .
In contrast to CYR61 and CTGF , no significant association was found between expression of either WISP - 1 or NOV versus any of the pathological features .
Impact of tumor cell VEGF expression on the in vivo efficacy of vandetanib ( ZACTIMA ; ZD6474 ) .
With a median follow - up of 8 . 4 months , the overall best response rate is 37 % ( 2 complete clinical response / complete clinical response unconfirmed and 9 partial response ) , with 22 % achieving stable disease .
In this review , we focus on the use of tumor necrosis factor alpha ( TNF ) in local and systemic therapy in conjunction with chemotherapy .
The subsequent identification of germline mutations in the gene encoding fumarase - - another TCA cycle enzyme - - in a new hereditary form of susceptibility to renal , uterine and cutaneous tumors has highlighted the potential role of the TCA cycle and , more generally , of the mitochondria in cancer .
Autochthonous vessels surrounding other tumors such as renal - cell carcinomas or malignant lymphomas also frequently expressed somatostatin receptors .
Impaired CK1 delta activity attenuates SV40 - induced cellular transformation in vitro and mouse mammary carcinogenesis in vivo .
In addition to its role in embryonic development , the Hedgehog pathway has been shown to be an active participant in cancer development , progression , and metastasis .
A significant amount of type I HK RNA was also found expressed in cancer cell lines .
CSC - high C6 cell cultures also induced higher levels of endothelial cell proliferation and tubule organization in vitro compared with CSC - low cultures .
Because these phenomena are all of critical importance during morphogenesis , and because FAK is expressed in embryonic cells , evidence has been accumulating to indicate that FAK may be an important modulator of developmental processes .
c - Ski , originally identified as a proto - oncogene product , is an important negative regulator of transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - beta family signaling through interaction with Smad2 , Smad3 , and Smad4 .
The enhanced antiangiogenic effect of cRGD - HL was confirmed in Matrigel assay by showing the significant inhibition of bFGF - driven angiogenesis and blood vessel formation .
We also examined islet endotheliuml / oxidative stress ( OS ) / inflammation - related gene expression , islet vascularization and fibrosis after treatment with the interleukin - 1 ( IL - 1 ) receptor antagonist ( IL - 1Ra ) .
Correlation with clinico - pathological factors including LVI as retrieved by routine haematoxylin and eosin ( H . E . ) stained sections and the eligibility for the prediction of ALNM was assessed .
METHODS : Patients diagnosed with chronic CSC , with clinical evidence of activity and treated with Photodynamic Therapy , are included in this report .
CONCLUSION : PDT preserves vision in patients with CNV associated with PM .
One limitation of these approaches , however , may be the failure to normalize myocardial perfusion , due to the concomitant presence or small of resistance vessel disease .
In the embryonic stem cells homozygous for these hypomorphic Apc alleles , the level of the APC protein was inversely correlated with both the beta - catenin accumulation and beta - catenin / T - cell factor transcriptional activity .
Using c - FLIP anti - sense oligonucleotides to down - regulate c - FLIP we sensitized DU145 cells to CH - 11 - induced apoptosis .
A pivotal role for p53 : balancing aerobic respiration and glycolysis .
From these results , it was suggested that PPARgamma activation might suppress COX - 2 expression via the nuclear factor - kappaB pathway in the ovarian carcinoma cells and that low expression of PPARgamma and high expression of COX - 2 might be involved in carcinogenesis and progression of ovarian tumours .
To define these roles more clearly , we examined the expression of DCC and its ligand , netrin - 1 , in the normal endometrium and in endometrial cancer .
A nutritionally induced obesity model in transgenic mice has been used extensively to study the role of the fibrinolytic and MMP systems in the development of obesity .
Consequently , mitochondrial integrity is compromised , and the caspase - 9 - dependent cascade is activated in treated tumor cells .
Transforming growth factor beta 1 promotes spontaneous transformation of cultured rat liver epithelial cells .
It is believed that the role of the E1B - 55kDa protein in transformation is to protect against p53 - dependent apoptosis by binding to and inactivating p53 .
We postulate that endoscopic observation is valuable in investigating the development of gastric carcinoma , and microvascular structure and lectin binding pattern may be useful to demonstrate the mechanism of growth of gastric carcinoma .
CONCLUSION : This angiogenesis assay based on human fat tissue uses three - dimensionally intact human tissue .
IL - 1Ra also improved islet vascularization , reduced fibrosis and ameliorated glycemia .
LVI was correctly identified by D2 - 40 ( D2 - 40 + ) in 70 out of 254 tumors ( 28 % ) as compared to 40 tumors ( 16 % ) by routine HE staining ( HE + ) .
Ovarian cancer is a silent killer , and shows early extensive tumor invasion and peritoneal metastasis .
During the last decade , a significant body of evidence has accumulated , indicating that expression of the components of the IGF system are regulated by multiple factors , including growth factors , cytokines , lipoproteins , reactive oxygen species , and hemodynamic forces .
Hyperforin blocks neutrophil activation of matrix metalloproteinase - 9 , motility and recruitment , and restrains inflammation - triggered angiogenesis and lung fibrosis .
This is a randomized , open label , prospective study that examined the effect of preventive zoledronic acid treatment on the development of bone metastases in patients with recurrent solid tumors , without bone metastases at the time of randomization .
For verifying apoptosis , both DNA Fragmentation by ELISA assay and caspase 3 / 7 activity measurement were used .
Bmi - 1 transgenic mice were born with enlarged lateral ventricles and a minority developed idiopathic hydrocephalus as adults , but none of the transgenic mice formed detectable CNS tumors , even when aged .
In the manual count analysis , there was no significant relation between MDM2 overexpression and outcome .
Glucose catabolism in cancer cells : identification and characterization of a marked activation response of the type II hexokinase gene to hypoxic conditions .
Eleven genes were identified whose expression changed significantly in response to carcinogen treatment .
Lactoferrin enhances Fas expression and apoptosis in the colon mucosa of azoxymethane - treated rats .
bFGF was loaded into the heparin functionalized ( PLGA - heparin ) microspheres by a simple dipping method .
Glycolysis of 3T3 and Ehrlich ascites tumor cells was greatly enhanced by Nonidet P - 40 or Triton X - 100 at about 100 micrograms / mg cell protein .
However , the mechanism of action and the efficiency in inducing apoptosis of these two proteins are not similar .
Our results leave unexplained the observation that nm23 - H1 allelic deletion correlates with metastatic potential of colon carcinomas .
The percentage of cell apoptosis increased with the enhancing of concentration .
Skin deep and deeper : multiple pathways in basal cell carcinogenesis .
Uncultured peripheral blood T - cells from human T - cell leukemia - lymphoma virus - infected individuals expressed DR antigens at a low level , and the DR alpha locus was partially unmethylated .
Further deletions reveal a sequence within the carboxy - terminal domain that is responsible for in vivo bundle formation .
In addition , TNFalpha treatment alone led to increased malignant transformation of mouse embryo fibroblasts , which could be partially suppressed by antioxidants .
They also support the implication of local advanced glycation end product deposits and liberation of VEGF in that process .
The B ( 1 ) R appeared either as cytoplasmic dots or labeling on the apical cell membrane of the cells composing the epithelia with intestinal metaplasia ( 24 / 24 ; 100 % ) and carcinoma in situ ( 10 / 10 ; 100 % ) and in the epithelial cells of adenomas .
Levels of FGFR1 , but not FGFR2 , were increased in embryonic aorta cultured under 5 % O ( 2 ) relative to room air .
METHODS : Immunohistochemical and PCR - SSCP techniques were used to detect c - kit protein expression and c - kit gene exon 11 mutation in 82 patients with GIST .
These data complement work that shows that HPV16 E7 also interacts with p600 , and that this interaction correlates with the ability of HPV16 E7 to transform cells .
Proteolytic activity is required for the turnover of the extracellular matrix during wound healing .
The cellular and molecular mechanisms by which a tumour cell undergoes metastasis to a predetermined location are largely unknown .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : Using a custom microarray , we analyzed 72 primary PETs , seven matched metastases , and 10 normal pancreatic samples .
We determined that lacZ was uniformly expressed in the endothelium of transgenic embryos but was markedly downregulated postnatally .
Anti - metastasis effects of gallic acid on gastric cancer cells involves inhibition of NF - kappaB activity and downregulation of PI3K / AKT / small GTPase signals .
LDH5 overexpression was associated with histological type ( adenocarcinoma = 57 % , squamous cell carcinoma = 45 % , large cell carcinoma = 46 % , p = 0 . 006 ) .
Apparently , several in vivo phosphorylation sites were recognized in vitro in both large T - antigen and p53 , but the presence of some artifactual sites could not be completely excluded .
Here we targeted M2 - PK by synthetic peptide aptamers , which specifically bind to M2 - PK and shift the isoenzyme into its low affinity dimeric conformation .
A 74 - year - old man presented with persistent metamorphopsias of the right eye 2 weeks after intravitreal injection of bevacizumab to treat choroidal neovascularization due to exudative age - related macular degeneration .
H - ras mutations in human pituitary carcinoma metastases .
Moreover , the ternary combination resulted in a significant increase of VEGF secretion in HT - 29 cancer cells .
EC9706 and EC109 cells were incubated with varying concentrations of aspirin and nimesulide , and the effects on cell proliferation and apoptosis were monitored by 3 - ( 4 , 5 - dimethyl - thiazol - 2yl ) - 2 , 5 - diphenyltetrazolium bromide and flow cytometry .
Tissue reaction of TET epithelial scaffolds immersed with the medium was evaluated on the chick embryo chorioallantoic membrane .
The two parameters were more frequently observed in the SCC with VEGF / p53 coexpression than in those without the coexpression .
The putative metastasis suppressor genes , NME1 ( nm23 - 1 ) and NME2 ( nm23 - 2 ) , were examined in a model system we developed to approximate the dissemination of melanoma from a primary skin tumor .
However , re - expression of wt - p53 in EU - 4 cells could restore the doxorubicin - p53 - survivin pathway , resulting in significantly decreased survivin expression and increased apoptosis in these cells after doxorubicin treatment .
We report that neuronal death resulting from focal cerebral ischaemia ( middle cerebral artery occlusion , 24 h ) is significantly inhibited ( by 50 % ) in rats injected with a recombinant IL - 1 receptor antagonist ( IL - 1ra , 10 micrograms , icv 30 min before and 10 min after ischaemia ) .
The antiangiogenic properties of PDT have been adapted for treatment of subfoveal choroidal neovascular membranes due to disease states such as age - related macular degeneration ( AMD ) .
These findings suggest that c - Ski overexpression promotes the growth of diffuse - type gastric carcinoma through induction of angiogenesis .
In an animal experiment , marrow cells were infiltrated into the walls of long - fibril expanded polytetrafluoroethylene ( ePTFE ) vascular grafts .
Metronomic 5 - fluorouracil , oxaliplatin and irinotecan in colorectal cancer .
We have reported recently that the long terminal repeat ( LTR ) of Moloney murine leukemia virus encodes a trans activator which induces transcription and expression of class I major histocompatibility complex genes and certain cytokine genes .
Regardless how death is inflicted , every cancer cell must die , be it fast or slow .
Having identified the nucleolar localisation sequence in BAG - 1L , we showed that mutation of this sequence did not prevent BAG - 1L from potentiating VDR activity .
Furthermore , we investigated the correlation between CXCR4 expression and the clinical features of 221 gastric cancer tissue samples .
The bFGF loaded PLGA - heparin microspheres were tested for in vitro release and in vivo angiogenic activity .
p53 appears to be a nuclear transcription factor that plays a role in the control of cell proliferation , apoptosis , and the maintenance of genetic stability .
This encourages the performance of further studies to analyse the potential impact of 123I - IMT SPET on the therapeutic management of patients with brain tumours .
Apoptosis , or programmed cell death , is thought to play a role in the dichotomous behavior of neuroblastoma .
This decrease persisted for the remaining 2 weeks of treatment .
The acquisition of the metastatic phenotype induced by UV - B could not be attributed to abnormalities in the p53 or MTS - 1 ( p16INK4 ) genes .
Like in Apc ( Delta716 ) mice , loss of the wild - type Apc allele was confirmed for all polyps examined in the Apc ( neoR ) and Apc ( neoF ) mice .
When wound healing assay was used to assess in vitro tumor cell migration , hypoxia conditioning for 1 h enhanced B16F10 cell migration .
Targeting SREBP could become a novel approach in fighting diseases involving abnormal ECs migration .
We show here that NIH3T3 cells acquire tumorigenic ability in nude mice and make colonies in soft agar with a viral LTR ( Long Terminal Repeat ) - driven artificial expression of the eph gene to a high level .
In the present study , the vascular grade was assessed in 107 ( T1 , 2 - N0 , 1 ) operable non - small cell lung carcinomas , using the JC70 monoclonal antibody to CD31 .
All of the clones in culture showed almost the same low level of metastatic ability and exhibited little K - ras oncogene amplification with correspondingly low mRNA expression .
These were pigmented , and maintained expression of tyrosinase , TRP - 1 , cytokeratin and SV40 Tag .
In co - transfection experiments , exogenous expression of AP - 2gamma robustly activated ErbB - 3 promoter activity .
In these conditions , the rates of oxygen uptake , the CO2 evolution and the changes in the redox states of cytochromes indicate that glucose is preferred by Ehrlich ascites tumour cells as energy substrate .
Administration of 317615 x 2HCl also increased the tumor growth delay produced by fractionated radiation therapy in the MX - 1 tumor .
Immunodetection was performed with a specific anti - bFGF mouse monoclonal antibody that was found to react with recombinant human bFGF in Western blot analysis , and to specifically neutralize the mitogenic activity of bFGF on bovine vascular endothelial cells .
Two natural models of ovine IUGR are those of hyperthermic exposure during pregnancy , and adolescent overfeeding , also during pregnancy .
These data suggest that angiogenesis in operable non - small cell lung cancer is a major prognostic factor for survival and , among the parameters tested , is the only factor related to cancer cell migration to lymph nodes .
Recent studies have shown that 14 - 3 - 3zeta interacted with other key cellular proteins involved in the tumor development and progression .
Two of these cell cycle inhibitors , p16 ( INK4A ) and p15 ( INK4B ) , have tumor suppressor activities and are inactivated in human cancer .
Our data suggest that enhanced proliferation is precipitated by an accelerated cell cycle , and decreased migration by an inability to activate CDC42 .
Early relapse with distant metastasis often is observed in patients with cancer after resection of the primary tumor .
Several Notch genes have clearly been shown to be proto - oncogenes in mammalian cells .
The hypothesis was that therapy with NH ( 2 ) - terminally truncated form of galectin - 3 ( galectin - 3C ) will be efficacious for reduction in tumor growth and for inhibition of metastases .
They exhibited specific and high - affinity binding of somatostatin - 14 , somatostatin - 28 and octreotide , suggesting a preferential expression of the SSTR2 receptor subtype .
Our objectives were to determine the safety and efficacy of rofecoxib in treating acute haemarthrosis , chronic synovitis , target joints and pain .
Multi - step neoplastic transformation of normal human fibroblasts by Co - 60 gamma rays and Ha - ras oncogenes .
In animal or cell culture studies , the growth and spread of cancer can be slowed by many nutrients , food factors , herbal extracts , and well - tolerated , available drugs that are still rarely used in the clinical management of cancer , in part because they seem unlikely to constitute definitive therapies in themselves .
A transcript from the long terminal repeats of a murine retrovirus associated with trans activation of cellular genes .
Preventing VEGFR1 function using antibodies or by the removal of VEGFR1 ( + ) cells from the bone marrow of wild - type mice abrogates the formation of these pre - metastatic clusters and prevents tumour metastasis , whereas reconstitution with selected Id3 ( inhibitor of differentiation 3 ) - competent VEGFR1 + cells establishes cluster formation and tumour metastasis in Id3 knockout mice .
The aim of this study was to compare angiogenesis parameters in low nuclear grade ( n = 87 ) vs high nuclear grade CC - RCC ( n = 63 ) .
Histological examination revealed cystic or angiomatoid spaces of various sizes lined by cuboidal , low - columnar , or flattened epithelioid cells with vacuolated cytoplasm and round to oval nuclei .
RESULTS : Thirty - two of 35 patients ( median age , 62 years ) are evaluable for response .
The transformation of normal melanocytes , or melanocyte stem cells , to melanoma , is a complex process involving multiple mechanisms .
For a video summary of this article , see the PaperFlick file available with the online Supplemental Data .
However , the 5 - year survival rate of patients with high MMP - 9 protein expression were lower than those with low expression ( 19 vs . 4 . 7 % , p < 0 . 05 ) .
Neither the synthesis nor some basic activities of MyoD appeared to be affected by wt SVLT .
Although the exact mechanisms underlying the Warburg effect are unclear , the existing evidence suggests that increased glycolysis plays an important role in support malignant behavior of cancer cells .
Human pituitary tumor transforming gene ( PTTG ) overexpression correlates with metastasis in multiple tumors , and yet its molecular mechanisms of action remain elusive .
The result showed that the mechanism of the FPC antineoplastic effect had an intimate relation with its induction to apoptosis and that the result of FPC inducing tumor cell apoptosis had the character of P53 independence .
Radiologic defect area measurement results at 0 , 4 , and 16 weeks were compared between the groups .
There was no correlation between the expression of HLA - DR and infiltration by dendritic cells .
Our results suggest that this small peptide functions as an angiogenic inhibitor by inhibiting VEGF function through a non - VEGF binding mechanism .
Simian virus 40 large T antigen and two independent T - antigen segments sensitize cells to apoptosis following genotoxic damage .
In the current investigation , we show that p - XSC , but not an equivalent dose of SM , alters molecular targets and induces apoptosis in androgen - responsive LNCaP and androgen - independent LNCaP C4 - 2 human prostate cancer cells .
Since all these cells lack any mRNA for collagen , XII , it seems likely that the synthesis is blocked at the transcriptional level .
Rat embryonic lung explant studies further validated the importance of the IGF - IGF - IR system for lung vascular development .
Here , we discuss the possibility for MMPs to contribute to pericyte recruitment at six levels : ( 1 ) direct promotion of pericyte invasion by extracellular matrix degradation ; ( 2 ) stimulation of pericyte proliferation and protection against apoptosis by modification of the ECM ; ( 3 ) activation of pericytes through the release of growth factor bound to the ECM ; ( 4 ) transactivation of angiogenic cell surface receptor ; ( 5 ) propagation of angiogenic signalling as cofactor ; and ( 6 ) recruitment of bone marrow - derived stem cells .
The inhibition of platelet activation with prostaglandin E1 ( PGE ( 1 ) ) attenuated the invasive capacity of SKOV3 cells .
Therefore , we speculated that Ang II may promote the expression of sFlt - 1 in pregnancy .
After the completion of skin development , angiogenesis , i . e . , the growth of new capillaries from pre - existing blood vessels , is held to occur in the skin only under pathologic conditions .
Expression of ING4 is significantly reduced in gliomas as compared with normal human brain tissue , and the extent of reduction correlates with the progression from lower to higher grades of tumours .
The archival surgical pathology files of The Johns Hopkins Hospital were searched for cases of brain metastases biopsied between 1990 and 2000 .
Although the number of mutations in the APC and beta - catenin genes in our CRC cases was very low , the study confirms the role of epigenetic gene silencing of the pivotal molecular gladiator , APC , of the Wnt pathway in the development of CRC in the Kashmiri population .
Topo I expression in paired primary lymph node metastases were studied for concordance .
Blood vessels , capillaries , and endothelial pseudopods were found at greater than 100 microns from the capsule ( subcortex ) .
Histological examination of ovarian corrosion casts indicated that NS - 398 inhibited the establishment of luteal capillary vessels following the injection of hCG .
On the contrary , CD154 stimulated cell proliferation , motility and production of PAF , a phospholipid mediator of inflammation with angiogenic properties .
The aim of this study was to characterize the distribution of hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 in normal and cancerous ovarian tissue and to examine the effects of LL - 37 on ovarian cancer cells .
Normal and transforming functions of RUNX1 : a perspective .
BMECs co - expressing SV40T , hTERT and N - ras exhibited an overtly transformed phenotype ; forming very large colonies with an altered morphology and generating rapidly growing tumours in vivo .
Oncostatin M ( OSM ) , an IL - 6 family cytokine responsible for STAT3 activation , has been implicated in cancer development , progression , invasion , and metastasis .
Expression of nm23 - H1 gene product in metastatic lymph nodes was also unrelated to patients survival .
[ Study on the expression of angiogenesis and spontaneous apoptosis and their relevance in laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma ]
Here we report a zebrafish brca2 insertional mutant that shares phenotypes with human patients and identifies a novel brca2 function in oogenesis .
It is suggested that inhibition of tumour angiogenesis by vitamin E may be an additional mechanism for the anticancer action of vitamin E .
In addition , when 200 micrograms U - 995 was injected i . p . into mice it suppressed sarcoma - 180 cell growth and B16 - F10 mouse melanoma cell metastasis in vivo .
In conclusion , allogeneic FM - MSC injection did not elicit a lymphocyte proliferative response and provided significant improvement in a rat model of hind limb ischemia , comparable to the response to BM - MSC .
Interestingly , FRTL - 5 - RhoA QL cells express less Tg and TTF - 1 than wild - type FRTL - 5 ( FRTL - 5 - vector ) or FRTL - 5 - RhoA N19 , suggesting a loss at the differentiation stage .
Jun N terminal kinase ( JNK1 ) and p38 kinase are activated by a variety of stress stimuli .
Our experiments demonstrate that insulin - like growth factor I indeed induces hexokinase gene expression in a concentration and time dependent manner in two cancer cell lines we studied .
To test this possibility , CD2 / F ( 1 ) mice were placed on synthetic diets containing 0 , 1 , or 2 % CLA for 6 weeks , before angiogenic challenge by s . c . injection with an angiogenic gel substrate ( Matrigel pellet assay ) .
Bradycardia was induced in rats by administering the bradycardic drug alinidine ( 3 mg / kg body weight ) twice daily .
Furthermore , compared with similar fusion proteins in which uteroglobin was not used , the use of uteroglobin improved properties of solubility and stability .
Therefore we suggest that HKa through its D5 domain alters P13 - kinase - Akt signaling to inhibit endothelial cell migration through alterations in the focal adhesions .
METHODS : After immunohistochemical staining , light microscope was used for counting macrophages and automated image analysis quantification was used to determine VEGF - C expression , which was reflected by positive index ( PI ) .
HBO is useful in chronic nonhealing wounds of the diabetic foot and of the diabetic foot with impending amputation .
In this review , we will discuss the current knowledge of MTSS1 ' s role in cancer metastasis , carcinogenesis , and development .
Activation of protein kinase C ( PKC ) induces phenotypic changes in the morphology of microvascular endothelial cells that affect major functions of the microvasculature .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : U - 995 was designed to study human umbilical vein endothelial cell ( HUVEC ) migration and proliferation in vitro and angiogenesis induced by TNF alpha in chicken chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) .
Gangliocytic paraganglioma ( GPG ) with local lymph node metastasis was found in the pancreas of a 74 - yr - old female who presented with diarrhea , steatorrhea , vomiting , nausea , and abdominal pain .
Finally , inhibition of Id - 1 expression results in G ( 2 ) / M accumulation of FGF - 2 - treated cells and delayed cell death .
We found that bolus ( 3h ) treatment with doxorubicin resulted in a dose - dependent decrease of viable cells and concomitant increase of apoptosis .
These results indicate that induction of SAPKs by hypoxia regulates HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression in head and neck carcinoma cell lines .
Hereditary paraganglioma / pheochromocytoma and inherited succinate dehydrogenase deficiency .
These results suggest that products of ethanol metabolism are important factors in the development of ethanol - induced changes in endothelial cell responsiveness to VEGF .
Plasmid DNA encoding each of the three principal human VEGF isoforms ( phVEGF121 , phVEGF165 , or phVEGF189 ) was applied to the hydrogel polymer coating of an angioplasty balloon and delivered percutaneously to one iliac artery of rabbits with operatively induced hindlimb ischemia .
These investigations demonstrate transformation of human ECs to an overtly malignant phenotype .
This study was designed to evaluate the potential implication of stromelysin - 3 ( ST3 ) , a newly identified member of the matrix - degrading metalloproteinase family , and of BM - 40 / SPARC , a glycoprotein associated with the extracellular matrix , during the progression of human colorectal cancers .
Following implantation within the striatum , the volume of the primary fibroblast grafts , stained immunohistochemically for fibronectin , does not differ significantly at 3 and 8 weeks .
Mutations in the genes encoding the three other succinate dehydrogenase subunits ( SDHB , SDHC and SDHD ) have been identified in patients affected by familial or ' apparently sporadic ' paraganglioma and / or pheochromocytoma , an autosomal inherited cancer - susceptibility syndrome .
METHODS : Ovarian cancer SKOV3 cells were transfected with hPNAS - 4 - plasmid , and cell proliferation was evaluated by MTT assay ; apoptosis was examined by DNA ladder , Hoechst33258 staining and flow - cytometric assays .
Molecular biology of cervical cancer and its precursors .
Inhibition of ethanol metabolism by 4 - methylpyrazole partially abrogated the effect of ethanol on endothelial cell cord formation .
Moreover , the conditioned medium from TFs was found to be able to promote ESCC tumor cell growth , migration , and invasion in vitro .
These findings suggest that targeting beta ( 2 ) M or MHC class I by using antibodies or other agents offers a potential therapeutic approach for beta ( 2 ) M / MHC class I - expressing malignancies .
When tumor cells possessed a high level of UK , laminin and type IV collagen , components of the basement membrane , disappeared from tumor tissues .
These observations suggest that stem / progenitor cells in the mammary gland may be especially susceptible to oncogenic transformation .
Homeostasis of the extracellular matrix is a delicate balance between degradation and remodeling , the balance being maintained by the interaction of activated matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) and specific tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases ( TIMPs ) .
The decrease in ATP level might be explained through the interaction of the amine oxide with the cell membrane integrity .
PURPOSE : Control of the natural course of subretinal neovascularization ( SRNV ) in age - related macular degeneration ( AMD ) is difficult .
Ras - association domain family 1C protein promotes breast cancer cell migration and attenuates apoptosis .
After 48 h in culture , DR antigen expression was substantially increased , but no significant changes were observed in methylation of the DR alpha locus or in the amount of DR mRNA which was present .
These results demonstrate that functional collaboration exists between p18 and Men1 and suggest that Men1 may regulate additional factor ( s ) that interact with p18 and p27 differently .
Furthermore , i . p . treatment with Hyp reduces acute PMN recruitment and enhances resolution in a pulmonary bleomycin - induced inflammation model , significantly reducing consequent fibrosis .
Transformation - associated cytokine 9E3 / CEF4 is chemotactic for chicken peripheral blood mononuclear cells .
Staining of the normal mammary epithelium , if present , was much lower than observed in tumor cells from the same patient .
Although this pathway is activated by autocrine signaling by Hedgehog ligands , it can also initiate paracrine signaling with cells in the microenvironment .
A possible explanation for the decrease in the ATP level might be interaction of the amine oxide with the cell membrane .
The increased migration ability and the invasive ability into tumor cluster of TGF - beta - treated NIH3T3 cells were dose dependently inhibited by TSP - 1 .
Effects of doxycycline on in vitro growth , migration , and gelatinase activity of breast carcinoma cells .
Participation of p53 cellular tumour antigen in transformation of normal embryonic cells .
We show that enhanced glycolysis is dependent on HIF - 1alpha up - regulation , while reduced mitochondrial activity is HIF - 1alpha - independent and likely caused by STAT3 - mediated down - regulation of mitochondrial proteins .
The CCAAT / enhancer - binding protein beta ( C / EBPbeta ) transcription factor has been associated with several cancer models .
The expression of endothelial cell ( EC ) adhesion molecules involved in leukocyte - vessel wall interactions is suppressed in malignancies .
Hypermethylation was also frequently observed in a large series of bladder tumors ( 83 . 1 % , n = 804 ) .
Presence of blood vessels was confirmed with histology and electron microscopy .
At intervals of four to 14 days , the animals were challenged by intrastromal inoculation with 10 , 000 plaque - forming units of viable HSV .
Mutation positive GIST showed higher frequency of adjacent tissue invasion , metastasis and recurrence as compared with mutation negative ones .
The role of the pro - inflammatory peptide , LL - 37 , and its pro - form , human cationic antimicrobial protein 18 ( hCAP - 18 ) , in cancer development and progression is poorly understood .
The transition between both conformations contributes to the control of glycolysis and is important for tumor cell proliferation and survival .
The induction of Ets - 1 in ECs after denudation was regulated transcriptionally , and humeral factors released from injured ECs might not be responsible .
Specifically , CLA was found to decrease the ability of mammary stromal cells to form complex anastomosing microcapillary networks in vitro on Engelbreth - Holm - Swarm - derived reconstituted basement membrane .
Delayed addition of GM - CSF , but not FBS , permitted partial rescue of the cells , inhibiting increasing rates of accumulation of fragmented DNA .
Interference with Dll4 - Notch signaling may be particularly desirable in tumors that have highly induced Dll4 - Notch pathway .
OBJECTIVES : This study sought to assess the cellular and histologic basis of irreversible pulmonary hypertension ( PHT ) in the clinical setting of congenital heart disease ( CHD ) .
Angiogenesis associated with visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissue in severe human obesity .
The role of organ vascularization and lipoplex - serum initial contact in intravenous murine lipofection .
Neuroblastoma and hepatocyte coculture conditioned media alter apoptosis .
Gene enhancement with IGF - 1 improved donor cell proliferation , survival , and engraftment after cell transplantation , perhaps mediated by enhanced angiogenesis and reduced apoptosis .
All the tumors produced grew progressively without showing regression and killed the mice .
Rats that were irradiated twice ( single fractions at 0 and 24 hours after implantation ) did not show a significant decrease in the neovascularization of the irradiated implant compared with the contralateral control implant .
Involved introns contain homology to recombination signal sequence ( RSS ) heptamers present in the V ( D ) J region of the T lymphocyte receptor gene .
The relationship between P185neu - protein tyrosine kinase expression and specific PTPase expression may play a critical role in human breast tumorigenesis .
Activation of the myc gene may play a role in transformation by promoting growth of the cells bearing the rearranged chromosomes .
Assays of electrophoretic mobility , DNA - binding specificity , and antigenicity indicated that Stat3 or a closely related STAT family member was constitutively activated by the Src oncoprotein .
In this study , we investigated whether the nuclear transcription factor NF - kappaB , implicated in PC metastasis , is involved in transcriptional regulation and activation of BMP - 2 or BMP - 4 / Smad signaling in PC cells .
We conclude that anti - angiogenic action of thalidomide is due to direct inhibitory action on VEGF secretion and capillary microvessel formation as well as immunomodulatory influence on EA . hy 926 cells migration and adhesion .
NF - kappaB and IKK as therapeutic targets in cancer .
Chronic exposure to tobacco smoke , which contains over 60 tumor - initiating carcinogens , is the major risk factor for development of lung cancer , accounting for a large portion of cancer - related deaths worldwide .
Two of 12 cell lines formed xenografts in mice .
Statistical analysis is performed and P < 0 . 05 considered significant .
IL - 12 inhibition of endothelial cell functions and angiogenesis depends on lymphocyte - endothelial cell cross - talk .
Herein , we report that these compounds effectively inhibited SDF - 1 - induced migration of human breast cancer cells ( MDA - MB - 231 ) , human leukemia T cells ( Sup - T1 ) and human umbilical vein endothelial cells at concentrations of 10 - 100 nM in vitro .
The enhancing factors are proteins related to the family of the transforming growth factors ( TGFs ) by their molecular weight ( about 20 kd ) , their heat and acid resistance , and their sensitivity to dithiothreitol .
Polyethylene glycol - superoxide dismutase ( PEG - SOD ) markedly inhibited both the increases in VEGF expression and the proliferative effects of 20 - HETE .
Induction of Ets - 1 in endothelial cells during reendothelialization after denuding injury .
Depletion of Rab7a decreased VEGFR2 Y1175 phosphorylation but increased p42 / 44 ( pERK1 / 2 ) MAPK phosphorylation .
Small interfering ribonucleic acid specific for MCT 1 and 2 reduced expression of these isoforms in U - 87 MG cells to barely detectable levels and reduced lactate efflux by 30 % individually and 85 % in combination , with a concomitant decrease of intracellular pH by 0 . 6 units ( a fourfold increase in intracellular H ( + ) ) .
As a consequence , these tumors generate more lactate , which is effluxed from cells by monocarboxylate transporters ( MCTs ) .
The A431 cells exhibited typical in vitro cell adhesion to the endothelial F - 2 cells .
Treatment with anti - Fas , however , significantly decreased Fas - c - erbB2 and Fas - c - met association .
Antioxidant N - acetyl - l - aspartate ( NAC ) decreased vessels number in tumors formed by cells with inactivated p53 and inhibited their growth .
Our current data suggest that gamma rays worked as an initiator of carcinogenesis in normal human cells , giving rise to chromosome aberrations and immortality , and the Ha - ras oncogene played a role in the progression of the immortally transformed cell population to a neoplastic one showing enhanced colony formation in soft agar and tumorigenicity in nude mice .
The data show that different protein expression patterns exist between primary squamous cell lung carcinomas with and without lymph node involvement and within carcinomas with lymph node involvement .
The transfer of apoptosis genes to tumors constitutes one of the most promising strategies for cancer gene therapy .
Inhibition of either PARP or caspase activity blocked magnolol - induced apoptosis , supporting the involvement of the caspases and PARP .
Although both hypomorphic heterozygotes developed intestinal polyps , tumor multiplicities were much lower than that in Apc ( Delta716 ) mice , heterozygotes of an Apc null allele .
Repeated rounds of mutation , selection , and proliferation may lead to cancer .
UV radiation has been shown to play a role in the initiation of human cutaneous melanoma , but its role in the development of malignant melanoma to the metastatic state is not very well defined .
Sunitinib induces apoptosis in pheochromocytoma tumor cells by inhibiting VEGFR2 / Akt / mTOR / S6K1 pathways through modulation of Bcl - 2 and BAD .
The single non - epithelial line induced foci and was found to contain an activated c - Ki - ras gene with a G - - - - A transition in codon 12 .
To evaluate the effect of EPOX on the endothelial signaling pathway , we did immunoblotting , immunoprecipitation , and immunofluorescence analysis .
The modulation of platelet and endothelial cell adhesion to vascular graft materials by perlecan .
The mean final visual acuity in eyes with higher refractive error at baseline ( greater than - 17 diopters ) was significantly better ( P = 0 . 014 ) than that in eyes with lower refractive error ( - 6 to - 10 diopters ) .
Radiosensitization by 2 - DG in monolayer cells was primarily due to an increase in mitotic death ( 23 % ) linked to cytogenetic damage ( micronuclei ) , whereas a profound induction of apoptosis ( 40 % ) accounted for the sensitization in spheroids .
BACKGROUND : Bone morphogenetic proteins ( BMPs ) exert osteoinductive effects in prostate cancer ( PC ) via uncharacterized mechanisms .
Intramolecular self - phosphorylation of Tyr1173 removes a competitive inhibitory constraint to enhance phosphorylation of substrates .
In addition , a reduction in tumor volume of Grm1 - mouse - melanocytic - allografts was detected in the presence of small interfering AKT2 RNA ( siAKT2 ) .
Plasminogen activator ( PA ) content of excised tumors was determined by SDS - PAGE , and major PA was found to be urokinase ( UK ) type .
BACKGROUND : Mesenchymal stem cells ( MSCs ) transplantation is of therapeutic potential after ischemic injury in both experimental and clinical studies .
A number of signaling cascades have been shown to play important roles in prostate cancer development and progression , including the androgen receptor ( AR ) and phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase / Akt signaling pathways .
The results of LDH5 expression were correlated to clinico - pathological data as well as to patient ' s survival .
Transgenic mice engineered to express human endosialin bred on an immunocompromised background allowed the growth of human tumor xenografts .
The migration activity of heparin and mast cell conditioned medium was blocked by specific antagonists of heparin ( protamine and heparinase ) , but not by chondroitinase ABC .
Transduction of BMSVTs with hTERT resulted in immortalization of 4 out of 4 cultures .
Interference with the function of transcription factor AP - 2 might provide a potential strategy for modulation of the malignant phenotype .
Use of exogenous Sonic hedgehog ( Shh ) peptide significantly increased BrdU incorporation in endothelial cells in vitro by a factor of 2 ( P less than 0 . 001 ) .
In normal gastric mucosa , C / EBPbeta expression was restricted to cells in the proliferative zone .
Levels of pro - angiogenic vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and angiogenic inhibitor pigment epithelium - derived factor ( PEDF ) were determined .
Using a human recombinant antibody ( scFv ) specific for the angiogenesis marker domain B of fibronectin , interleukin 2 , and an scFv able to neutralize tumor necrosis factor - alpha , we expressed various biologically active uteroglobin fusion proteins .
Thus , our objective was to explore the expression of COUP - TFII in colorectal cancer as well as its association with clinicopathological features , and to evaluate the role of COUP - TFII as a prognostic indicator in colorectal cancer .
DMI inhibited cell proliferation in a time - dependent manner .
The results demonstrate the possibility to generate monospecific divalent and tetravalent antibodies , immunocytokines , and dual specificity tetravalent antibodies .
This phenomenon occurs at mast cell / tumor ratios which reflect the stoichiometry of host cell / tumor relationships in vivo .
We found a significant positive correlation between IL - 8 and estradiol in normal breast tissue and hormone - dependent breast cancer in vivo .
3 - BrPA ( 3 - bromopyruvate ) is an alkylating agent with anti - tumoral activity on hepatocellular carcinoma .
To confirm the role of lymphangiogenesis in mediating metastasis , the low - metastatic LAPC - 9 tumor cells were engineered to overexpress VEGF - C , and the development of metastases was evaluated .
Somatostatin receptors were detected in peritumoral veins of various human cancer tissue specimens .
The mechanism of TP induction is not yet completely clear , but TNF , IL10 and other cytokines have been clearly shown to induce its expression .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and its receptors are key regulators of the process of angiogenesis , which makes them attractive therapeutic targets .
A significant increase was observed in flt - 1 ( P less than 0 . 001 ) , KDR ( P = 0 . 02 ) , and flt - 4 ( P = 0 . 01 ) but not VEGF - B ( P = 0 . 82 ) or VEGF - C ( P = 0 . 52 ) expression in clear cell compared with chromophil ( papillary ) carcinomas .
Biopsy specimens were examined by real - time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction ( RT - PCR ) and Western blotting ; serum was analyzed by enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) .
The results show that , without affecting in vitro human PMN viability and chemokine - receptor expression , Hyp ( as stable dicyclohexylammonium salt ) was able to inhibit in a dose - dependent manner their chemotaxis and chemoinvasion ( IC50 = 1 microM for both ) ; this effect was associated with a reduced expression of the adhesion molecule CD11b by formyl - Met - Leu - Phe - stimulated neutrophils and block of LE - triggered activation of the gelatinase matrix metalloproteinase - 9 .
PURPOSE : The goal of this research was to evaluate a potential therapeutic agent for breast cancer based on galectin - 3 that has been implicated in tumorigenicity and metastasis of breast cancer .
Interleukin - 1 receptor antagonist inhibits ischaemic and excitotoxic neuronal damage in the rat .
Previous studies have shown that v - erbA and v - myb can induce the proliferation of avian erythroid cells in culture .
Therefore , this enhancing effect does not result from an idiosyncrasy of the EBV genome but rather reflects a general property of these miRNAs .
Given its recently - described role as an inflammatory mediator , VEGF could also contribute to the inflammatory responses observed in cerebral ischemia .
In contrast , the implants that were irradiated three times ( single fractions at 0 , 24 , and 48 hours after implantation ) demonstrated significantly diminished ( greater than 25 percent , p less than 0 . 05 ) neovascularization beyond day 7 , whereas implants irradiated only at 48 hours after implantation did not .
Patients with rectal cancer had greater topo I expression than those with colon tumors ( P = . 029 ) .
Experiments showed that mutant embryos and mutant cells in culture experienced genome instability , as do cells in FA patients .
The quaternary benzo [ c ] phenanthridine alkaloid sanguinarine inhibits the proliferation of cancerous cells from different origins , including lung , breast , pancreatic and colon , but nothing is known of its effects on osteosarcoma , a primary malignant bone tumour .
N - myc overrode the metabolic protection provided by Bcl - 2 - induced oxidative phosphorylation by reestablishing the glycolytic phenotype and attenuated the antiapoptotic effect of Bcl - 2 during metabolic stress .
We also show that Akt pathway mediates IGF1 - R - induced Bcl - x ( L ) expression at transcriptional level .
The latter effect persisted even with the late addition of CHX .
Hence , regulatory mechanisms of IL - 8 need to be investigated in whole tissue .
This analysis revealed a higher expression of vessel maturation and stabilisation factors ( placental growth factor , PDGFB1 , angiopoietin 1 ) in CC - RCC with high MVD , a group of CC - RCC highly enriched in low nuclear grade CC - RCC , with low ECP % .
An extensive array of compounds is currently in preclinical development , with many now entering the clinic and / or achieving approval from the US Food and Drug Administration .
Our data indicates that this therapeutic approach markedly promotes angiogenesis and granulation tissue formation in comparison with other conditions 14 days after wounding .
Additionally , impaired placental angiogenesis and uteroplacental blood flow appears to be an early defect in both the hyperthermic and adolescent paradigms .
This review summarises the evidence from 8 pivotal trials of cilostazol involving over 2000 patients with intermittent claudication treated for up to 6 months .
This sensitization did not occur when T251 - 708 was targeted to the nucleus by inclusion of the SV40 nuclear localization signal .
In contrast , expression of kinase - dead PIM - 2 mutant ( PIM - 2KD ) led to a rapid decline of survival in Ba / F3 cells transformed by FLT3 - ITD but not by other oncogenic PTKs tested .
Our studies demonstrate that IFI16 mediates ICAM - 1 stimulation by TNF - alpha through the NF - kappaB pathway , thus reinforcing the role of the IFI16 molecule in the inflammation process .
Thalidomide had no direct effect on endothelial cells .
The 5 - yr survival rate in patients with the coexpression was poorer than in the other patients .
The inhibition of fibrinolysis or proteases decreased the primary tumor growth and pulmonary metastasis , whereas the activation of fibrinolysis or proteases increased the number of metastatic foci in the lung .
We are increasingly aware that cellular metabolism plays a vital role in diseases such as cancer , and that p53 is an important regulator of metabolic pathways .
The conclusion most consistent with the data is that the two MSRs are overlapping , spliced RNAs .
Here , we review the role of the Hedgehog pathway in the signature characteristics of cancer cells that determine tumor development , progression , and metastasis .
Similarly , mechanical overload - induced CCN1 gene expression in vivo was associated with nuclear localization of MRTF - A and enrichment of the CCN1 promoter with both MRTF - A and acetylated histone H3 .
BACKGROUND : Breast cancers have higher than normal glucose metabolism , but the mechanism of glucose entry into these tumors is not well understood .
The amount of conjugated amine group onto the microspheres was 1 . 93 + / - 0 . 01 nmol / mg - microspheres , while the amount of heparin was 95 . 8 pmol / mg - microspheres .
CD56 + putative natural killer cell lymphomas : production of cytolytic effectors and related proteins mediating tumor cell apoptosis ?
Energy supply of the mitotic cell cycle and the Na + / H + - antiport in ascites tumors .
DATS were injected once per four days intraperitoneally ( i . p . ) , with treatment starting 4 weeks prior to cells inoculation .
Nonetheless , anti - VEGF therapy has enhanced the arsenal of anticancer therapies and has provided new insights into the biology of malignancy .
Immunohistochemical analysis of nm23 - H1 gene product in node - positive lung cancer and lymph nodes .
HKa and D5 reduce the localization of paxillin to the focal adhesions after S1P and VEGF stimulation .
METHODS : Human fat tissue fragments from surgery were placed in 96 - well plates , embedded in fibrin thrombin clot and overlaid with cell culture media containing 20 % fetal bovine serum .
RESULTS : U - 995 ( 15 and 30 micrograms / ml ) markedly inhibited HUVEC migration and , at 15 - 50 micrograms / ml produced a dose - dependent decline in [ 3H ] - thymidine incorporation .
Thus , we show that deregulation of CDK expression in the primitive oral epithelium plays a unique function , providing a selective advantage that gives rise to transgene - positive TA - like pituitary cells .
Sixty - eight percent of tumors in this group were vimentin positive and 88 % of all vimentin - positive tumors fell into this category .
Despite considerable efforts in understanding the cellular mechanisms contributing to pancreatic cancer , the prognosis of this malignant disease is still extremely poor .
Melissoidesin G , a diterpenoid purified from Isodon melissoides , induces leukemic - cell apoptosis through induction of redox imbalance and exhibits synergy with other anticancer agents .
HAH - cortisol at 10 ( - 4 ) M ( with respect to cortisol ) did not suppress the DNA synthesis of Lewis lung carcinoma cells .
Combined mutations of p27 ( - / - ) and Men1 ( + / - ) , in contrast , did not exhibit noticeable synergistic stimulation of Rb kinase activity , cell proliferation , and tumor growth .
Here we describe a 185 - kDa tandem duplication mutant ( TDM ) that is expressed in KE and A - 1235 glioma cells , along with certain functional characteristics of the mutants .
CONCLUSIONS / SIGNIFICANCE : These results suggested that intrinsic apoptotic pathway may involve in anti - tumor growth effects of HTPB in lung cancer cells .
In this study , the expression of C / EBPbeta was analysed in a series of 90 gastric carcinomas ( GCs ) .
More than 50 % of the tumor cells coexpressed vimentin and keratin .
The development of the corpus luteum ( CL ) , which involves angiogenesis , is essential for the establishment of early pregnancy .
Store - operated calcium entry promotes shape change in pulmonary endothelial cells expressing Trp1 .
The ' angiostatic ' steroids 17 hydroxyprogesterone and epicortisol were tested because of their lack of glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid effects and their structural similarity to glucocorticoids .
Furthermore , the conditioned medium from these cells enhanced vascular permeability in vivo .
In both the prevention and intervention experiments , a significant diminution of tumor size and weight was observed in the drug - treated animals .
We analyzed their ability to block endothelial cell chemotaxis and induce apoptosis in vitro and their antiangiogenic activity in vivo .
As TGF - beta is a potent negative growth regulator of hematopoietic cells , investigations were undertaken to determine whether inactivation of the receptor by microsatellite alteration might be involved in the progression of CML .
Compared with BM - MSC , FM - MSC secreted a comparable amount of hepatocyte growth factor despite a small amount of vascular endothelial growth factor .
The pathophysiology involves inflammation and angiogenesis .
Here we analyzed LDH5 protein expression in a well characterized large cohort of primary lung cancers in correlation to clinico - pathological data and its possible impact on patient survival .
In this study , we identified Pbx1 , a proto - oncogene in hematopoietic malignancy , as a target gene of Evi - 1 .
METHODS : Human umbilical endothelial cells were treated with angiostatin or thalidomide and bFGF - induced proliferation was assessed with the MTT assay .
Viability , measured by the activity of mitochondrial dehydrogenases , was reduced significantly in the cells treated with Sim at 50 and 100 microM for 24 hours ( p < 0 . 005 ) .
Analyses of this sort may help to identify the cellular targets of pp60src whose phosphorylation is necessary for the increased glucose transport rate .
Overexpression of c - Ski inhibited TGF - beta signaling in OCUM - 2MLN cells .
Furthermore , inhibition of PARP activity , but not of caspase activity , completely prevented magnolol - induced necrosis , suggesting the notion that it might be caused by depletion of intracellular ATP levels due to PARP activation .
Hypoxia - inducible factor - 1 ( HIF - 1 ) is one of the key mammalian transcription factors and shows increased levels in both protein stability and intrinsic transcriptional activity during low oxygen tension .
1B3 binds to PDGFRbeta with high affinity ( 9x10 ( - 11 ) M ) and blocks PDGF - BB from binding to the receptor with an IC ( 50 ) of approximately 1 . 2 nM .
Patients with tumors demonstrating concurrent methylation of more than half of their genes demonstrated significantly poorer survival and earlier recurrence .
Comparison of tissue integration between polyester and polypropylene prostheses in the preperitoneal space .
Nucleotide sequence analysis of a 3116bp cDNA clone revealed a 2682 - bp - long open reading frame capable of directing the synthesis of a 894 amino acid polypeptide .
After successive growth in vitro for longer than one month which was scarcely observed with the erythrophores , the vast majority of such transformants began to differentiate into erythrophores and ceased proliferation spontaneously .
[ Inhibitory effect of adenovirus - mediated endostatin gene transfer on transplanted lung carcinoma in mice ]
Interleukin - 8 ( IL - 8 ) is known to be a pro - inflammatory and pro - angiogenic cytokine , and IL - 8 has been reported to be associated with tumor progression , prognosis and survival in several types of cancers .
Rather , it has been hypothesized that , at low concentrations , MBDs produce more subtle effects on microtubule dynamics , block critical cell signaling pathways , and prevent the microtubules from properly interacting with transient subcellular assemblies ( focal adhesions and adherens junctions ) whose subsequent stabilization and / or maturation are required for cell motility and cell - cell interactions .
Curcumin , which is a widely used dietary pigment and spice , has been demonstrated to be an effective inhibitor of tumor promotion in mouse skin carcinogenesis .
The epithelioid cells were entirely supported by proliferated capillaries and arteries together with collagenous stroma .
The importance of this tumor suppressor in the mechanisms of carcinogenesis is beyond question as the inactivation of ARF suppressor activity leads to the rapid growth of neoplasia .
In addition , cross - talk between the IGF system and other growth factors and integrin receptors has been demonstrated .
Furthermore , in cultured ovarian carcinoma cells , Western blot revealed that PPARgamma and COX - 2 expression was regulated conversely as a result of stimulation by 15 - deoxy - Delta ( 12 , 14 ) PGJ ( 2 ) ( 15 - PGJ ( 2 ) ) , a PPARgamma activator .
The effects of IGF - 1 are mediated principally through the IGF - 1R but are modulated by complex interactions with multiple IGF binding proteins that themselves are regulated by phosphorylation , proteolysis , polymerization , and cell or matrix association .
Expression of the cytolytic effectors perforin , granzyme B9 , and the granule membrane protein TIA1 were examined in 24 putative NK - cell lymphomas , 18 postthymic T - cell lymphomas ( one case CD8 + CD56 + and three anaplastic large cell lymphomas ( ALCL ) , three T - lymphoblastic lymphomas , and 20 B - cell lymphomas .
There was a significant correlation ( P = 0 . 022 ) between survivin and bcl - x expression ; survivin and bcl - x tended to correlate with overall survival ( P = 0 . 072 and 0 . 075 , respectively ) , but not with disease - free survival ( P = 0 . 19 and 0 . 18 , respectively ) .
Using DsRed - tagged Crk and a fluorescent time - lapse microscope , we showed that Crk was recruited to the nascent focal complex after ephrin - B1 stimulation .
In addition , the hypothesis predicts that early detection , which is designed to find more patients without involved lymph nodes , may not be a synergistic strategy with adjuvant chemotherapy , which works best with positive lymph node patients .
Angiotensin II ( ANG II ) , a key regulator of blood pressure and body fluid homeostasis , exerts mitogenic effects on endothelial cells .
Using univariate analysis , the S - 100beta level and metastatic profile were found to be statistically significant prognostic factors for survival .
Caspase 8 ( involved in non - mitochondrial extrinsic pathway ) and caspase 9 ( involved in mitochondrial intrinsic pathway ) were also activated , but to a much lesser extent .
Transfection of full - length 5T4 cDNA into epithelial cells alters cell - cell contacts and cellular motility .
Targeting wide - range oncogenic transformation via PU24FCl , a specific inhibitor of tumor Hsp90 .
Histologically , both 2G7 - treated and control tumors were identical .
These results suggest that C / EBPbeta may be a marker of neoplastic transformation and also play an active role in gastric tumourigenesis by regulating COX - 2 expression .
In the immunohistochemical analysis of EGFR and TGF - alpha and Ki67 index , a significant increase was observed in Ca ex - PA , especially with adenocarcinoma , compared with PA and sialadenitis .
Because poor skin wound healing associated with diabetes is thought to be partly a result from impaired angiogenesis , treatments that improve angiogenesis could have important clinical applications .
However , unlike tumor invasion , trophoblast invasion of the uterus is stringently controlled in situ by local molecules such as transforming growth factor ( TGF ) beta .
In the latter , VEGF colocalized with the advanced glycation end product pentosidine deposits .
This work is again extremely significant for patients worldwide , as Dvorak ' s scientific research is leading his colleagues all over the world to examine how to treat a tumor through its blood supply .
Two patients presented both RUNX1 mutations and RUNX1 - PRDM16 fusion .
Hyperforin ( Hyp ) , a polyphenol - derivative of St .
In this report we studied the effects of SFLLR , an agonist of the activated thrombin receptor and thrombin receptor peptide and non peptide antagonists on angiogenesis in the chick chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) system .
However , sVAP - 1 expression has not been described for gastric cancer .
Multivariate analysis demonstrated that alpha - SMA and lymph node metastasis were identified as independent predictive factors of metastasis .
The tumor - suppressive action of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS in subcutaneous human lung tumor A549 xenograft correlated with a reduced number of capillary vessels in tumors .
The effects of these alterations in placental functional development appear to be irreversible .
Pre - treatment with rapamycin inhibited activation of mTOR signalling and significantly enhanced the sensitivity of CaSki cells to paclitaxel by increasing apoptotic cell death .
Crosstalk between these two pathways is also thought to contribute to progression and hormone - refractory prostate disease .
By introducing a cDNA library derived from rat embryonic fibroblast cells , we isolated several morphologically flat revertants of rat 3Y1 cells transformed by the E6 and E7 genes of human papillomavirus type 18 ( HPV18 ) .
It is concluded that primary skin fibroblasts are able to survive for at least 8 weeks following intracerebral implantation and continue to synthesize collagen and fibronectin in vivo .
We hypothesized that Erbb2 activation contributes to UV - induced skin tumorigenesis by suppressing cell cycle arrest .
Angiogenesis has an essential role in promoting and supporting tumor growth and it is an important therapeutic target .
In the present study , we investigated in vivo the regulation of leukocyte - vessel wall interactions by the presence of a tumor .
Ectopic expression of SEMA3B or SEMA3F reduced soft - agar colony formation , adhesion , and cell invasion of ovarian cancer cell cultures .
Thus , mutation of beclin 1 or other autophagy genes may contribute to the pathogenesis of human cancers .
An anti - IL - 8 Ab inhibited endothelial cell proliferation induced by cancer cell produced IL - 8 and tumors with low IL - 8 levels exhibited decreased angiogenesis .
In a complex organism , somatic cells are under intermittent selection pressure for the emergence of mutants that can survive environmental insults and that can grow autonomously despite adverse conditions .
Cancer cells typically display gene dysfunction and endogenous or exogenous insults resulting in gene dysfunction are often carcinogenic .
CONCLUSIONS : The results suggest that annexin II and beta ( 2 ) - tubulin down - regulation is important in NPC formation and may represent potential targets for further investigations .
In this study , we investigated the effect of artemisinin on tumor growth , lymphangiogenesis , metastasis and survival in mouse Lewis lung carcinoma ( LLC ) models .
Epidermal growth factor ( EGF ) binds with high affinity and specificity to a single site on the external domain of its transmembrane receptor to activate the tyrosine protein kinase activity of its cytoplasmic portion .
These new functions of p53 are providing interesting possibilities for the development of novel therapies .
In down modulated growing cells , PDBu caused almost complete inhibition of EGF binding , whereas in down modulated stationary cells , minimal inhibition of EGF binding by PDBu was observed .
The procedure is based on the use of a central skeleton of uteroglobin , a small and very soluble covalently linked homodimeric protein that is very resistant to proteolytic enzymes and to pH variations .
However , the biochemical mechanisms by which MTSS1 functions in cells and the physiological role of this protein in animals remain largely unknown .
Rofecoxib was used for eight acute haemarthrosis , four target joints , seven cases of synovitis and 12 episodes of pain .
Extracellular matrix as a bioactive material for soft tissue reconstruction .
Finally , CD47 signaling may suppress angiogenesis because 4N1K significantly inhibited endothelial cell migration and tube formation in vitro .
The anti - tumour effect of L - NAME after systemic administration was studied in a renal subcapsular CC531 adenocarcinoma model in rats .
Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest is found at the end of this article .
Hypoxic tumor cells distant from blood vessels were dramatically reoxygenated at 24 h postirradiation , and HIF - 1 activity increased as HIF - 1alpha accumulated in the reoxygenated regions .
The impact of elevated VEGF expression on the course of chronic myeloid leukaemia is unknown .
Dopamine regulates phosphorylation of VEGF receptor 2 by engaging Src - homology - 2 - domain - containing protein tyrosine phosphatase 2 .
These results suggest a role for HS chains of perlecan in improving graft patency by selectively promoting endothelial cell proliferation while modulating platelet adhesion .
However , by treatment with Ha - ras oncogenes derived from a human lung carcinoma or Harvey murine sarcoma virus , the KMST - 6 cells acquired elevated clonability in soft agar and transplantability in nude mice .
The mRNA and protein expressions of KISS1 and of MMP - 9 protein were detected by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry respectively in 85 cases of NSCLC , and their matched lymph node metastases .
Human T - cell lymphoma virus ( HTLV ) - 1 was the first human retrovirus to be discovered .
METHODOLOGY / PRINCIPAL FINDINGS : Here , we propose a novel HDAC inhibitor , N - Hydroxy - 4 - ( 4 - phenylbutyryl - amino ) benzamide ( HTPB ) , as a potential chemotherapeutic drug for solid tumors .
Diabetes impairs endothelial function and reparative neovascularization .
The heightened sensitivity of VHL - deficient cells was not attributed to dissimilar energy requirements or to differences in glucose uptake , but more likely reflects a lesser ability of VHL - deficient cells to handle abnormally processed proteins arising from impaired glycosylation .
To test this hypothesis , the frequency of metastasis to the lung as a function of allergic pulmonary inflammation was assessed following the i . v . injection of B16 - F10 melanoma cells in mice .
RESULTS : Approximate 1 , 000 protein spots were detected on silver - stained gel by ImageMaster ( 977 + / - 113 spots in Hep3B , 1092 + / - 40 in MHCC97L , and 889 + / - 14 in MHCC97H ) .
Normal functionality of exogenous Tsg101 was tested by rescuing the survival of Tsg101 - deficient mammary epithelial cells in conditional knockout mice .
They code for proteins of 21 kDa , highly conserved in evolution , which belong to the superfamily of ras GTPases .
N - myc has proapoptotic functions , yet it acts as an oncogene in neuroblastoma .
These results indicate that HIF - 1 functions as a master regulator of angiogenesis by controlling the expression of multiple angiogenic growth factors and that adenovirus - mediated expression of a constitutively active form of HIF - 1alpha is sufficient to induce angiogenesis in nonischemic tissue of an adult animal .
The resulting mechanistic model confirms previous work proposing that 2 - BE induces macrophage activation and inflammation in the liver .
High expression of c - Ski has been found in some cancers , including gastric cancer .
These properties make such agents potentially useful as adjunctive therapy in haemophilia .
In this study , we have examined the ability of the purine analogue 8 - aminoadenosine to acutely reduce glucose consumption by regulating localization and expression of key glucose transporters .
Significantly , phenotypic reversion of malignant cells via reexpression of HoxD10 , which is lost in malignant progression , significantly attenuated VEGF expression in a hypoxia - inducible factor 1alpha - independent fashion and reduced EC migration .
METHOD : Dideoxy sequencing and fluorescent single strand conformation analysis were used to screen for mutations in exon 15 of BRAF in 183 cases of metastatic melanoma .
In contrast , doxorubicin treatment of mutant ( mut ) p53 cells ( EU - 6 / ALL line ) up - regulated survivin and induced G ( 2 ) / M arrest without inducing apoptosis .
TC - PTP PTPase expression was only slightly increased in these neu transformed cells , and no expression of CD45 PTPase was observed .
In contrast , neither VEGF mRNA nor secreted protein was found in uninfected HUVECs or RASMCs or in cells infected with the control vector AdCMV . beta gal ( where beta gal is beta - galactosidase ) .
Surprisingly , functional p53 was retained in vivo , even after transplantation , whereas explanted tumor cells displayed rapid allele loss in vitro .
Vascular proliferation and enhanced expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase in human peritoneum exposed to long - term peritoneal dialysis .
In all patients , a major and consistent induction of p53 target genes was seen .
The use of juice , peel and oil have also been shown to possess anticancer activities , including interference with tumor cell proliferation , cell cycle , invasion and angiogenesis .
HIF - 1alpha stabilization and the expression of VEGF isoform 165 and 121 in hypoxia were also reduced by the infection of lentiviral shRNA of TB4 in B16F10 cells .
The therapeutic options available in this regard include measures that : down - regulate serum free IGF - I ; suppress the synthesis of mevalonic acid and / or certain derivatives thereof ; modulate arachidonate metabolism by inhibiting 5 - lipoxygenase , 12 - lipoxygenase , or COX - 2 ; antagonize the activation of AP - 1 transcription factors ; promote the activation of PPAR - gamma transcription factors ; and that suppress angiogenesis by additional mechanisms .
However , its role in tumor - associated lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic metastasis remains unclear .
Tumour angiogenesis is an important factor for tumour growth and metastasis .
ACA treatment resulted in changes in morphology and a dose - dependent suppression of cell viability .
After tumor implantation the animals were examined weekly during several months for the appearance of metastases .
However , a statistically significant correlation was found between the surface expression of CD40 and the metastatic spread of the tumor .
Highly metastatic GSAS / N3 and N5 cells showed an enhanced NF - kappaB activity , thus contributing to increased migration , invasion , and a poor prognosis compared with the parent cells .
Despite these suggestive observations , no formal proof is as yet available for the concept that angiogenesis is a physiologic event that occurs all over the mature mammalian integument whenever hair follicles switch from resting ( telogen ) to active growth ( anagen ) .
We investigated the hypothesis that naked DNA encoding for VEGF could be used in a strategy of arterial gene therapy to stimulate collateral artery development .
Angiogenesis : initiation and control .
To clarify the role of Ang - 2 for angiogenesis and tumor growth in a definite genetic experimental setting , the present study was aimed at comparatively studying the growth of different tumors in wild - type and Ang - 2 - deficient mice .
The underlying mechanisms were systematically investigated in vitro and in vivo .
Recently , knock - out mice of homeobox genes by targeted disruption have also been used to examine their hematological effect .
We compared a treatment schedule were cells were bolus incubated for 3h with doxorubicin followed by 24h in drug - free medium , with a continuous doxorubicin treatment schedule for 24h .
However , no changes were observed in the presence of netrin - 1 .
Because proteolytic degradation of the extracellular matrix is a critical component of endothelial invasion in angiogenesis , it is logical to assume that PSMA participates in matrix degradation .
To evaluate the concept that localized delivery of angiogenic factors via virus - mediated gene transfer may be useful in the treatment of ischemic disorders , the replication - deficient adenovirus ( Ad ) vector AdCMV . VEGF165 ( where CMV is cytomegalovirus and VEGF is vascular endothelial growth factor ) containing the cDNA for human VEGF165 , a secreted endothelial cell - specific angiogenic growth factor , was constructed .
This hypothesis in humans can be tested only by intervention trials that are in progress .
We hypothesized that activation of store - operated Ca2 + channels ( SOCs ) is sufficient to promote cell shape change necessary for these processes .
Controlled neo - endothelialisation is critical to the patency of small diameter vascular grafts .
RESULTS : The antiapoptotic protein Bcl - 2 was highly expressed by pulmonary endothelial cells in all cases of irreversible PHT but in no cases of reversible PHT , nor in control patients ( p less than 0 . 001 ) .
Inhibition of c - Jun amino - terminal kinase ( JNK ) blocked type III collagen expression in LRP - 1 - deficient MEFs , suggesting regulation of JNK activity as a mechanism by which LRP - 1 controls mRNA expression .
We utilized two autologous human melanoma cell lines , IV Cl 1 and IV Cl 3 , which displayed qualitatively different metastatic phenotypes following subdermal inoculation into nude mice .
In addition to having a direct effect on tumor cells , vitamins such as alpha - tocopheryl succinate and beta - carotene enhance the effect of other agents that induce differentiation in tumor cells .
Effect of estrogen and progesterone on macrophage activation during wound healing .
Comparisons of presymposium and postsymposium responses and between the 2 groups of attendees indicated that the pediatric dentistry and endodontic communities agree that formocresol will be replaced as a primary tooth pulpotomy agent , that mineral trioxide is the first choice to take its place , that IPT in primary teeth holds hope as a replacement for pulpotomy , and that IPT is an acceptable pulp therapy technique for cariously involved young permanent teeth .
Although tumor cells can exploit cytokine signaling to promote growth , invasion , and metastasis , the response of normal and premalignant epithelial cells to cytokines present in a developing tumor microenvironment remains unclear .
KISS1 hypermethylation was frequent in bladder cancer cells analyzed by methylation - specific PCR and bisulfite sequencing and was associated with low gene expression , being restored in vitro by demethylating azacytidine .
Under this condition , the secondary functions of effected cells are likely to be impaired , and a new metabolic equilibrium is established , determined by the level of cross - diffusion and degree of hypoxia .
In the mammary carcinoma experiment , vascular permeability measured by means of B22956 / 1 in the animals treated with the antiangiogenic drug ( 0 . 0043317 + / - 0 . 0040418 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) ) was significantly less than in untreated animals ( 0 . 0090460 + / - 0 . 0043680 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) ) , whereas no significant difference was observed with Gd - DTPA - albumin ( 13 . 14 + / - 13 . 94 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) in treated animals and 18 . 07 + / - 11 . 92 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) in untreated animals ) .
Relevant differentially expressed genes were validated by either quantitative real - time polymerase chain reaction or immunohistochemistry on tissue microarrays .
RESULTS : The expression ofVEGF protein was most pronounced in AP ( ANOVA , p = 0 . 033 ) .
30 and 50 micrograms / ml of U - 995 , when added to TNF alpha - induced angiogenesis caused discontinuous and disrupted blood vessels .
After decapitation of the rats , trunk blood was obtained , and the ileum , liver , and kidney were removed for histological examination and for the measurement of malondialdehyde ( MDA ) and glutathione ( GSH ) levels , myeloperoxidase ( MPO ) activity , and collagen content .
Furthermore , we have searched for the underlying mechanisms of apoptosis by demonstrating apoptosis - related genes .
METHODS : The study included 60 patients with a known prognosis of invasive breast cancer .
Our aim is to verify the alterations in the HRK gene in primary central nervous system lymphomas ( PCNSLs ) .
Less frequent lesions ( invasive lobular , mucinous , and medullary carcinomas , radial scar ) will be also explained based on radiopathological correlations .
HIFs are also expressed during normal development ; for example , HIF - 2alpha is specifically expressed and appears to be involved in the development of the murine sympathetic nervous system ( SNS ) .
While the study of angiogenesis as a phenomenon is still in an early phase , it has become possible , by using a combination of in vitro and in vivo techniques , to more thoroughly understand the initiation and control of capillary growth .
The predicted UFO protein exhibits characteristic features of a transmembrane receptor with associated tyrosine kinase activity .
Bevacizumab is a humanized immunoglobulin G1 monoclonal antibody to vascular endothelial growth factor that has been shown to have activity in malignant gliomas when combined with irinotecan .
There have been no reports showing the relativity of invasive breast cancer and the desmoplastic reaction by a quantitative analysis of the myofibroblasts that were an important player in the desmoplastic reaction .
It leads to enhanced oxygenation of the affected tissues , has an antiseptic effect , reduces edema , and accelerates collagen production and angiogenesis , thus enhancing tissue repair .
Although the exact endpoints are unknown , the large 10 - kb species spans the entire ICP4 homolog region .
The synthesis and / or the excretion of this factor in a medium is controlled by the A gene .
As the p53 gene is known to possess tumor suppressor activity , the functional loss of this gene may be a significant step in the development of a subset of HCCs .
Although PTHrP is frequently expressed by breast tumors and other solid cancers , its effects on tumor progression are unclear .
Pretreatment with aspirin and nimesulide inhibited EC9706 and EC109 cell growth in a time and dose - dependent manner , accompanied with a decrease of prostaglandin E2 production .
Endothelial cell migration and vascular endothelial growth factor expression are the result of loss of breast tissue polarity .
A novel method of assessing vascular endothelial function in cancer is via the quantification of circulating endothelial cells ( CEC ) .
Investigating the causes of increased aerobic glycolysis in tumors ( Warburg Effect ) has gone in and out of fashion many times since it was first described almost a century ago .
Recently , considerable attentions have been devoted to the physiological roles of angiopoietin ( Ang ) - 1 and - 2 as regulatory factors of VEGF .
Pten signaling in gliomas .
Because AR - ARD1 interaction facilitated the AR binding to its targeted promoters for gene transcription , we propose that ARD1 functions as a unique AR regulator and forms a positive feedback loop for AR - dependent prostate tumorigenesis .
However , we demonstrate a novel and more complex role for PSMA in angiogenesis , where it is a principal component of a regulatory loop that is tightly modulating laminin - specific integrin signaling and GTPase - dependent , p21 - activated kinase 1 ( PAK - 1 ) activity .
The resulting clusters were correlated to patients with or without lymph node involvement .
Concentrations achieved in vivo in tumors lead to single - agent anti - tumor activity at non - toxic doses .
Autocrine angiogenic vascular prosthesis with bone marrow transplantation .
Furthermore , we show that p53 is activated in virally infected cells to evoke an apoptotic response and that p53 is critical for antiviral defence of the host .
Increased expression of specific protein tyrosine phosphatases in human breast epithelial cells neoplastically transformed by the neu oncogene .
TF is involved in cell migration , embryogenesis and angiogenesis .
Rise in insulin concentrations over baseline in the first 5 minutes of the glucose tolerance test were also significantly greater in dogs with lymphoma ( P = 0 . 021 ) .
A p53 mutant , p53R172P , which is deficient for apoptosis but retains a partial cell cycle arrest function , delays tumor onset in mice .
In epithelial cells , EphA2 and E - cadherin co - localize to sites of cell - cell contact , and it has been shown that E - cadherin regulates EphA2 .
In contrast , bFGF mRNA was not altered by alinidine treatment .
Suppression of lung tumor growth and metastasis in mice by adeno - associated virus - mediated expression of vasostatin .
CCL16 activates an angiogenic program in vascular endothelial cells .
No vessels were visualized in the controls .
Indeed , in the reported cases it was possible to vacuum dry and reconstitute the proteins without any aggregation or loss in protein and biological activity .
A kinetics analysis showed that the depolarization of mitochondrial membrane potential and the release of mitochondrial cytochrome c occurred as early as 30 min after treatment with betulin .
In addition suppression of WT1 expression by WT1 anti - sense oligonucleotide inhibits proliferation of leukemia cells , suggesting that WT1 is important for their proliferation .
After MNNG administration , rats were investigated by endoscopic observation , visualization of microvascular structure , and estimation of lectin binding sites .
Several such agents are currently in clinical trials , and many others are under development .
Galpha ( 12 ) , the alpha - subunit of the G12 family of heterotrimeric G proteins is involved in the regulation of cell proliferation and neoplastic transformation .
Interestingly , neovascularization of the implants irradiated with 10 fractions ( 3000 cGy ) was not significantly decreased compared with irradiation with three fractions ( 900 cGy ) .
Thus , antiapoptotic mechanisms have to be operative in neuroblastoma cells that antagonize the proapoptotic effects of N - myc .
The migration activity of mast cell conditioned medium was resistant to heat ( 100 degrees C ) and incubation with proteolytic enzymes .
Arterial pressure and cardiac output were unchanged .
RESULTS : 89 . 5 % ( n = 238 ) of NSCLC revealed LDH5 expression whereas LDH5 expression was not detected in non neoplastic lung tissues ( n = 34 ) ( p < 0 . 0001 ) .
FM - MSC and BM - MSC both expressed major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) class I but not MHC class II antigens and did not elicit allogeneic lymphocyte proliferation in mixed lymphocyte culture .
These results suggest that A5 - 1 will be a potent inhibitor of neovascularization .
Thrombin and SFLLR activated progelatinase A ( MMP - 2 ) in the culture medium of human umbilical cord endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) .
In this study , we sought to investigate in more detail the role of caspase - 3 in apoptotic processes in cultured cells and in cell - free extracts of breast cancer cells .
Only 26 protein spots had a positive result , including annexin1 , S100A4 , and so on .
In human colon carcinoma Colo205 and HT29 xenografts grown in human endosialin - transgenic mice , endosialin expression was largely confined to NG2 - expressing perivascular cells and not CD31 - positive endothelial cells .
The data provide an example of coordinated changes in the expression of two cell adhesion molecules , syndecan - 1 and E - cadherin during epithelial cell transformation .
Mechanical regulation of the proangiogenic factor CCN1 / CYR61 gene requires the combined activities of MRTF - A and CREB - binding protein histone acetyltransferase .
To further analyze RhoA function in thyroid cell proliferation and differentiation patterns , we combined transient and stable transfection assays to express different mutant RhoA forms in FRTL - 5 cells .
In vivo studies with athymic nude mice demonstrated that injection of atx - transfected NIH3T3 cells resulted in a weak tumorigenic capacity with few experimental metastases .
Emodin , at a 40 - microM concentration , which repressed tyrosine kinase of p185neu , efficiently inhibited both anchorage - dependent and anchorage - independent growth of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells .
METHODS : Corneas of 105 rabbits were infected with viable yeast cells of C . albicans ( 2 . 5 x 10 ( 5 ) ) .
A novel role of thrombospondin - 1 in cervical carcinogenesis : inhibit stroma reaction by inhibiting activated fibroblasts from invading cancer .
Curcumin inhibits metastatic progression of breast cancer cell through suppression of urokinase - type plasminogen activator by NF - kappa B signaling pathways .
The ability of distinct subdomains within VASP to bind adhesion proteins and induce F - actin bundling in vivo suggests that this protein could function in the aggregation and tethering of actin filaments during the formation of endothelial cell - substrate and cell - cell contacts .
In breast cancer , there are conflicting studies questioning the role of angiogenin .
CONCLUSION : Together , our findings suggest that RASSF1C , unlike RASSF1A , is not a tumor suppressor , but instead may play a role in stimulating metastasis and survival in breast cancer cells .
Patients were followed up at 1 month and 3 months after treatment and thereafter at 3 - month intervals .
Using tissue - specific ablation in mice , we deleted the BR - SMADs from somatic cells of ovaries and testes .
The prototype system proved relatively easy to operate .
The rate of oxygen utilization was not altered by the addition of 0 . 5 mM glutamine ; 5 mM glucose induced an inhibition of respiration .
However , treatment of cells with SB202190 or SP600125 , inhibitors of p38 MAPK and JNK respectively , did not affect HUVEC migration .
Understanding molecular mechanisms regulating angiogenesis may lead to novel therapies for ischemic disorders .
Regulation of the composition of the extracellular matrix by low density lipoprotein receptor - related protein - 1 : activities based on regulation of mRNA expression .
[ Expression of metastasis suppressor gene nm23 in human hepatocellular carcinoma ] .
Immunohistochemical staining for thyroid transcription factor - 1 : a helpful aid in discerning primary site of tumor origin in patients with brain metastases .
Our data suggest that low oxygen upregulates FGFR1 expression in embryonic aorta in vitro and renders it more responsive to FGF2 .
Robo1 and Robo4 interact and share molecules such as Slit2 , Mena and Vilse , a Cdc42 - GAP .
There was also a statistically significant difference regarding fibrosis between groups 1 and 4 .
Caspase activation , mitochondrial depolarization , and cytochrome c release were increased under these conditions .
p - XSC also decreases Akt phosphorylation as well as Akt - specific phosphorylation of the AR .
The fact that some vitamins induce cell differentiation and / or growth inhibition in tumor cells in culture suggests that the use of these vitamins in cancer prevention has a cellular basis .
Ba / F3 cells transformed to growth factor independence by various oncogenic PTKs ( TEL / JAK2 , TEL / TRKC , TEL / ABL , BCR / ABL , FLT3 - ITD , and H4 / PDGFbetaR ) show abundant expression of PIM - 1 and PIM - 2 .
Systemic administration of VEGF or LPS in adult mice resulted in cyclosporine A - sensitive reactivation of the DSCR1s promoter and endogenous gene expression in a subset of organs , including the heart and brain .
In an effort to dissect the mechanisms of GR - mediated breast epithelial cell survival , we now examine the molecular events downstream of GR activation .
Antisera to bovine u - PA blocked the increase in migration associated with increased c - src expression .
We situate invasion within microecosystems comprising neoplastic cells as well as host cells .
Finally , the inhibition of PAK activation enhances the PSMA / filamin A interaction and , thus , boosts PSMA activity .
Based on our results , we hypothesize that FGFR2 ( + ) - TFs might provide cancer cells with a suitable microenvironment via secretion of proteins that could promote cancer development and progression through stimulation of cancer cell proliferation , induction of angiogenesis , inhibition of cell adhesion , enhancement of cell mobility , and promotion of the epithelial - mesenchymal transition .
Further , delivery of an appropriate combination of DAPT and VEGF from an injectable alginate hydrogel system into ischemic hindlimbs led to a faster recovery of blood flow than VEGF or DAPT alone ; perfusion levels reached 80 % of the normal level by week 4 with combined DAPT and VEGF delivery .
Increased numbers of mast cells have been associated with several types of angiogenesis .
Rearrangement of the c - myc gene was common in the plasmacytomas , implying a synergistic role for myc and bcl - 2 in their etiology , but was not detected in the lymphomas .
These results suggest that Ve and OMP may be crucial heat - labile and protease - sensitive components of periodontal pathogens that enhance VEGF expression .
The greatest potential for angiogenesis inhibitors may lie in their ability to combine safely with chemotherapy and radiotherapy .
Engrafted MSCs survived , proliferated and differentiated into myocardium - like cells .
These assays yielded mainly the viral large T - antigen and , in particular , the associated cellular p53 as endogenous substrates .
PURPOSE : Antiangiogenic therapy is considered as an effective strategy for controlling the growth and metastasis of tumors .
Lymph nodes metastasis of tumor could be a crucial early step in the metastatic process .
Taken together , our studies , based on a molecular imaging approach for semiquantitative detection of micrometastases , point to an important role of tumor lymphatics in the metastatic process of human prostate cancer .
On the 8th day of serum - free culturing , only the higher molecular weight protein - band of about 45 kDa was clearly induced and accumulated in detached cells and apoptotic bodies in which PARP was activated .
The level of apoptosis correlated directly with the expression level of the receptor , indicating that p75 may activate the cell death program directly .
RESULT : The average IMVD was ( 21 . 50 + / - 8 . 87 ) , and median of AI was 1 . 15 % .
After confirming the results in agar - processed cell lines , annexin II and beta ( 2 ) - tubulin expression were found to be lower in tumor cells than in adjacent normal epithelial cells in 100 % and 90 % of the patients ' specimens , respectively .
Proto - oncogene N - myc promoter is down regulated by the Wilms ' tumor suppressor gene WT1 .
Furthermore , ubiquitination of cellular proteins was elevated in VHL - deficient cells , particularly after glucose deprivation , supporting a role for the VHL gene in ubiquitin - mediated proteolysis .
CONCLUSIONS : The data suggest that PI3K / Akt - NF - kappaB axis may promote PC bone metastasis in part by regulating transcription and activation of the BMP - 2 - Smad signaling cascade in osteotropic PC cells .
Of all the secretory products of mast cells tested , only heparin stimulated capillary endothelial cell migration in vitro .
We now report that a nearby residue , Thr - 495 , also appears to be phosphorylated .
Trib1 and Evi1 were up - regulated due to retroviral insertions , and coexpression of these genes significantly accelerated the onset of Hoxa9 / Meis1 - induced AML , suggesting that Trib1 and Evi1 are the key collaborators .
The reduction in collagenolytic activity was observed in viable cells as well as in conditioned medium .
Cells infected with this mutant display a 36 , 000 - dalton protein that is phosphorylated to a considerably lesser extent than cells infected with wild - type virus .
p63 also correlated with advanced pathological stage , tumor size , and the expression of human telomerase reverse transcriptase ( hTERT ) , tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase 1 ( TIMP1 ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
Although contaminating kinases were detectable in the immune complexes , at least the p53 molecules were phosphorylated in vitro in a more specific way .
Cells which were grown in media containing 5 and 10 ng / ml TGF - beta demonstrated a low level of colony - forming efficiency in soft agar medium without added epidermal growth factor and tumorigenicity in isogeneic rats .
Fluroquinolone antibiotics such as ciprofloxacin , which can be administered p . o . , may have a profound effect in bladder cancer management .
Mutant mice lacking both cyclin - dependent kinase ( CDK ) inhibitors p18 ( Ink4c ) and p27 ( Kip1 ) develop a tumor spectrum reminiscent of human multiple endocrine neoplasia ( MEN ) syndromes .
PURPOSE : Heparin immobilized porous poly ( D , L - lactic - co - glycolic acid ) ( PLGA ) microspheres were prepared for sustained release of basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) to induce angiogenesis .
Binding studies with SPARC and SPARC peptides indicate specific and saturable interaction with smooth muscle cells that involves the C - terminal Ca2 + - binding region of the protein .
14 - 3 - 3zeta might be used as prognostic biomarkers for NSCLC .
Together these results indicated that the revertant phenotype did not result from altered expression or mutations in the c - jun gene .
Their resistance to the anti - invasive action of TGFbeta was explained by the failure of TGFbeta to upregulate TIMPs and PAI - I , in contrast to the TGFbeta - induced upregulation noted in parental HTR8 cells .
Angiogenesis depends on growth factors and vascular cell adhesion events .
Disease - free ( DFS ) and overall ( OAS ) survival curves were estimated by the Kaplan - Meier method .
These data strongly implicate the BR - SMADs as part of a critical developmental pathway in ovaries and testis that , when disrupted , leads to malignant transformation .
In contrast , MCT 3 was the predominantly expressed isoform in normal brain .
Because of the imperfect association of nuclear grade and ECP % or MVD , CC - RCC was also grouped based on low / high MVD and ECP % .
The average IMVD in positive and negative cervical lymphatic metastasis was ( 26 . 33 + / - 9 . 70 ) and ( 17 . 68 + / - 6 . 06 ) respectively , and the IMVD with positive lymphatic metastasis tumors was statistical significantly higher than those with negative cervical lymphatic metastasis tumors ( P less than 0 . 01 ) .
p53 up - regulation and p53 - mediated proliferation arrest and apoptosis were substantiated using immunohistochemistry , with activation of both the intrinsic and the extrinsic apoptotic pathways .
In patients with resectable gastric cancer , the grade of infiltrating dendritic cells may be a suitable predictor of prognosis .
Highly sensitive reverse - transcription polymerase chain reaction identifies an induction and overexpression of a type II - like tumor HK RNA in a range of cancer cell lines irrespective of tissue origin .
CONCLUSIONS : Fluconazole plus adjunct high - dose prednisolone treatment was most effective when administered 9 days after infection .
Therefore , to understand their role in tumor invasion , it is necessary to evaluate them collectively .
This was attributed to high entrapment of lipoplexes in the extended lung vascular tree .
The portion of the LTR responsible for trans activation was mapped by deletions to lie within the U3 region .
The binding activity of NF - kappaB to DNA was examined in nuclear extracts using Trans - AM NF - kappaB ELISA kit .
The present study evaluated the effect of cumene hydroperoxide ( Cum - OOH ) on the induction of activator protein - 1 ( AP - 1 ) , which is linked to the expression of genes regulating cell proliferation , growth and transformation .
PURPOSE : Angiogenesis is increased in aggressive histology non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma and may be a target with selective cyclooxygenase - 2 inhibition and metronomic chemotherapy .
MMTV - cre - mediated fur inactivation concomitant with PLAG1 proto - oncogene activation delays salivary gland tumorigenesis in mice .
Allergen - induced respiratory inflammation facilitates and / or elicits the extravasation of proinflammatory leukocytes by well - understood mechanisms that mediate the movement of multiple cell types .
We used these data to establish a convenient , effective and non - radioactive ELISA screening technique for the identification and evaluation of potential inhibitors for VEGFR - 2 kinase .
A small peptide derived from Flt - 1 ( VEGFR - 1 ) functions as an angiogenic inhibitor .
Vitamins regulate gene expression and induce differentiation and growth inhibition in cancer cells .
The regulation of cell survival functions by Pak1 - DLC1 interaction represents a novel mechanism by which a signaling kinase might regulate the cancerous phenotypes .
CONCLUSIONS : We have established a model to study the regulation of angiogenesis by human adipose tissue .
Our results show CWR22Rv - 1 and PC3 tumor cell lines to be more metastatic than LAPC - 4 , which in turn disseminates more readily than LAPC - 9 .
Rats were immunized with irradiated hepatoma cells transduced by herpes viral amplicon vectors containing the genes for GM - CSF , IL - 2 or LacZ .
Systemic treatment with L - NAME inhibited growth of adenocarcinoma significantly but was accompanied by impaired renal function .
Instead , regulation occurred at the mRNA level .
Measurements of respiration , CO2 and lactate production , and changes in the levels of various key metabolites of the glycolytic sequence and tricarboxylic acid cycle were made on five lines of rodent ascites tumor cells ( two strains of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells , Krebs II carcinoma , AS - 30D carcinoma , and L1210 cells ) incubated aerobically in the presence of uniformly labeled D - [ 14C ] glucose .
Myocardial ischemia both acute and chronic has been clearly shown to stimulate angiogenesis in many experimental models .
Androgen stimulates glycolysis for de novo lipid synthesis by increasing the activities of hexokinase 2 and 6 - phosphofructo - 2 - kinase / fructose - 2 , 6 - bisphosphatase 2 in prostate cancer cells .
IGF - 1 mRNA ( n = 10 / group ) and protein levels ( n = 6 / group ) were higher ( P less than 0 . 05 for all groups ) at 3 , 7 , and 14 days compared with controls .
Because failure of endothelial cell apoptosis might lead to intimal proliferation and lack of reversibility of PHT , we investigated this and other key markers of vasoactivity and angiogenesis in subjects with PHT and CHD .
MET expression is rarely detected in primary human melanoma but is frequently observed in metastatic disease .
Concordance in topo I staining between primary and lymph node metastases was observed in 33 of 42 cases ( P = . 029 ) .
This has been suggested as one of the mechanisms to explain the mammography paradox for women aged 40 - 49 years .
Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) , like other DNA tumor viruses , induces morphological transformation of cells in vitro and stimulates host cell macromolecular synthesis in infected cells .
Since hexokinase is the first rate limiting enzyme in the glycolytic pathway , elevated levels of Type II like hexokinase in tumors are of great significance in this context .
[ Interleukin - 18 and new drugs . Protective effect against tumor growth and infections ] .
One theoretical possibility is that mast cells may prepare the matrix , perhaps by slow release of heparin , so that capillary sprouts can more easily move through it toward their angiogenic target .
HGF constitutively produced VEGF and levels were significantly enhanced ( P less than 0 . 01 ) by stimulation with Ve and OMP from A . actinomycetemcomitans and P . gingivalis at concentrations of 10 microg / ml or higher .
We also observed an overlap between C / EBPbeta and COX - 2 expression in GC .
RESULTS : Our data showed that : tuberous sclerosis 2 ( TSC2 ) and phosphatase and tensin homolog ( PTEN ) were downregulated in most of the primary tumors , and their low expression was significantly associated with shorter disease - free and overall survival ; somatostatin receptor 2 ( SSTR2 ) was absent or very low in insulinomas compared with nonfunctioning tumors ; and expression of fibroblast growth factor 13 ( FGF13 ) gene was significantly associated with the occurrence of liver metastasis and shorter disease - free survival .
Via this binding , nicked beta2GPI attenuates the antiangiogenic functions of AS4 . 5 in the proliferation of arterial / venous endothelial cells , in the extracellular matrix invasion and the tube formation of venous endothelial cells , and in vivo angiogenesis .
Thus , our results provide the first evidence that , in human breast carcinoma cells and in rat mammary carcinomas that have an induced increase in neu expression , a consistent and substantial increase in the expression of specific PTPases occurs .
A synergistic anti - tumour effect of L - NAME is observed in combination with melphalan and / or TNF using ILP .
The level of apoptosis , as measured by annexin binding to exposed phosphatidylserine moieties , increased significantly in the treated cells at concentrations higher than 50 microM for 24 hours ( p < 0 . 003 ) .
Apoptosis ( programmed cell death ) regulates cell population size .
Surprisingly , the level of leukocyte adhesion in ear venules of mice with a large flank tumor was also reduced significantly .
E1A proteins stimulate DNA synthesis and cell proliferation ; however , they also cause rapid cell death by p53 - dependent and p53 - independent apoptosis .
VTAs can be divided into two groups : antiangiogenic agents and vascular - disrupting agents ( VDAs ) .
Recent evidence suggests an association of these polymorphisms with an increased risk of cervical cancer , so we explored this relationship .
Down - regulation of Mcl - 1 resulted in an increase in Mcl - 1 - free Bim , activation of Bax , and then signaling of mitochondria - mediated apoptosis .
OBJECTIVE : Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 ( VEGFR2 ) is a receptor tyrosine kinase that regulates vascular physiology .
CONCLUSIONS : This study provides evidence that EPOX induces glutathione depletion , ERK inactivation , and Mcl - 1 degradation on endothelial cells , which leads to inhibition of angiogenesis .
Transfection of SiHa cervical cancer cells with a plasmid expressing the TSP - 1 protein exhibited antiangiogenic activity in vitro and resulted in reduced tumor growth in severe combined immunodeficiency ( SCID ) mice , which was accompanied by a decrease in tumor vascularization and lower expressions of alpha - SMA and desmin than those in the vector controls .
GTPase - deficient , constitutively activated mutant of Galpha ( 12 ) ( Galpha ( 12 ) Q229L or Galpha ( 12 ) QL ) has been previously shown to induce oncogenic transformation of NIH3T3 cells promoting serum - and anchorage - independent growth .
A standardized surgical procedure incorporated a hybrid stimulation system comprising an implantable mini - stimulator and surface electrodes , with creation of repeatable ischemic wounds .
Infiltration of dendritic cells correlated negatively with distant lymph node metastases , clinical stage , and peritoneal invasion .
Since tumor cell - derived TSP - 1 has the potential to promote angiogenesis in the tumor microenvironment , it could be a potential target for breast cancer therapy .
Neoplastic transformation and tumorigenesis associated with overexpression of phospholipase D isozymes in cultured murine fibroblasts .
The present study shows that a mutant with an LMP1 site - specific mutation at TES2 , LMP1 ( TRADD ) , initially stimulates cell growth and significantly extends the life span of MEF .
The cells subsequently proliferate and differentiate to form endothelial tubes and capillary - like structures .
In the present study , we evaluated the effects of curcumin on human mammary epithelial carcinoma MCF - 7 cells .
Differential mechanisms of radiosensitization by 2 - deoxy - D - glucose in the monolayers and multicellular spheroids of a human glioma cell line .
Our data suggest that plasmin - nicked beta2GPI promotes angiogenesis by interacting with plasmin - generated AS4 . 5 in sites of increased fibrinolysis such as thrombus .
The relation between the expression of Merlin protein and the multiple factors of pathological type , gender , P - TNM stage , differentiation and lymph node metastasis was analyzed .
The results suggest that chronic exposure to high concentration of TGF - beta promotes the spontaneous neoplastic transformation of cultured rat liver epithelial cells , and that this process may represent one of the mechanisms of cellular adaptation for induction of the multidrug - resistant phenotype during the carcinogenesis of epithelial cells .
OBJECTIVE : To determine the expression and clinical significance of Merlin protein in non - small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) .
The aim of this study was to study the effects of magnolol on CGTH W - 2 thyroid carcinoma cells .
Our results suggest that a key change in the metastatic hybrids , relative to non - metastatic parental LTA cells , is induction of expression of 72 kDa type IV collagenase .
However , when compared with clinicopathological features , the expression of HSP27 correlated inversely with survival period .
However , the increase in visual acuity is variable , probably due to the extent of RPE damage .
Transcutaneous measurements of tissue pO2 showed elevation from 20 + / - 10 mm Hg during air breathing to 643 + / - 242 mm Hg while breathing pure oxygen at 2 . 5 ATA .
This resulted in beta tumor cell metastases in distant organs and local lymph nodes , demonstrating a role for pericytes in limiting tumor cell metastasis .
Additionally , the angiogenic and lymphangiogenic profiles of the tumors were characterized .
The aptamer - induced dimerization and inactivation of M2 - PK led to a significant decrease in the PK mass - action ratio as well as ATP : ADP ratio in the target cells .
Visual acuity in eyes with progressive lesions decreased a median of 4 lines of vision .
Six edentulous patients ( aged 60 + / - 9 years ) with a severely atrophic mandible underwent bone augmentation with distraction osteogenesis .
Semaphorins comprise a family of molecules that influence neuronal growth and guidance .
In vivo and in vitro results .
Alteration of homeobox gene expression by N - ras transformation of PA - 1 human teratocarcinoma cells .
Our initial investigations show that the naturally occurring organoselenium compound selenomethionine ( SM ) and the synthetic 1 , 4 - phenylenebis ( methylene ) selenocyanate ( p - XSC ) can inhibit human prostate cancer cell viability ; however , in contrast to SM , p - XSC is active at physiologically relevant doses .
Furthermore , we found that RASSF1C over - expression enhances T47D cell invasion / migration in vitro .
All of these parameters were reduced by the COX - II inhibitors , suggesting that changes in the vasculature are responsible for the decrease in serum progesterone .
Then , we demonstrated a mitochondrial membrane potential disruption followed by cytochrome c release that indicates the involvement of mitochondria in this apoptotic signaling pathway .
In conclusion , the metastasis from TRP - 1 / Tag RPE tumors towards spleen and lymph nodes serves as potential tool to investigate biology and metastasis of tumors derived from the pigment epithelium .
RESULTS : Mice bearing subcutaneous tumor of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS pretreated Lewis lung carcinoma cells showed > 50 % reduction in primary tumor volume and reduced spontaneous pulmonary metastases .
Onconase similarly inhibited proliferation in all three cell lines ( IC ( 50 ) = 0 . 3 - 1 . 0 microM ) while ( - 4 ) rhEDN was more effective on immortalized HUVEC cell lines ( IC ( 50 ) = 0 . 02 - 0 . 06 microM ) than on primary HUVECs ( IC ( 50 ) > 0 . 1 microM ) .
Treatment with vehicle or with 10 and 50 mg / kg of DATS resulted in a reduction in tumor volume and weight .
It is a safe mode of therapy , but further studies are required to establish its efficacy and to ascertain which diabetic patients and wounds will benefit the most from it .
OBJECTIVES : Bisphosphonates have been used successfully in the treatment of hypercalcemia and to reduce skeletal - related complications of bone metastases .
UV - B - induced IL - 8 was constitutively expressed 60 days after irradiation in tumors implanted in mice .
Only one eye received a second PDT treatment due to choroidal neovascularization .
This prospective study aimed to determine the efficacy and individual benefit of external beam radiotherapy ( EBRT ) .
In contrast , we have previously reported that total nm23 messenger RNA ( mRNA ) expression is increased to similar levels in colon tumors of both high and low metastatic potential .
The higher mortality rate in the folate - deficient group compared with the other two groups ( 25 % versus 6 . 5 % and 5 . 6 % , P < 0 . 02 ) partially accounted for the low incidence of high - grade lesions in this group .
However , its widespread application has been hampered by difficulties in the large - scale production of the antiangiogenic proteins .
The nucleotide sequence of the cDNA was shown to be identical to that of the 3 ' untranslated region of a putative mammalian polycomb group gene , mel - 18 .
Tumor promotion is due to induction of inflammation that results in enhanced pneumocyte proliferation and is abrogated by IKKbeta ablation in myeloid cells or inactivation of JNK1 .
Curcumin ( 1 , 7 - bis ( 4 - hydroxy - 3 - methoxyphenyl ) - 1 , 6 - heptadiene - 3 , 5 - dione ) , is extracted from the plant Curcuma longa .
All of the 4 tumors that were CD40 - negative , were stage I tumors , without any evidence of regional or distant metastasis .
The aim of the present study was to investigate the specific role of TF in the esophageal cancer microenvironment .
Domain 5 of cleaved high molecular weight kininogen inhibits endothelial cell migration through Akt .
Identification of Dss1 as a 12 - O - tetradecanoylphorbol - 13 - acetate - responsive gene expressed in keratinocyte progenitor cells , with possible involvement in early skin tumorigenesis .
PTEN protein expression paralleled with its mRNA expression ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
The p75 receptor of neurotrophins ( p75 ( NTR ) ) , which is scarcely present in healthy endothelial cells ( ECs ) , becomes strongly expressed by capillary ECs after induction of peripheral ischemia in type - 1 diabetic mice .
Neuroblastoma is derived from SNS precursors .
Relationship of p53 and Helicobacter pylori to clinicopathological features of human remnant stomach cancer after gastric surgery for primary gastric cancer .
We show that HIF - 1alpha and VEGF are increased through A3 adenosine receptor stimulation , whereas the effects on IL - 8 are mediated via the A2B subtype .
These two enzymes were also found to have specificity for gelatin .
This effect is mediated , at least in part , by a decrease in TTF - 1 activity , since transient or stable expression of RhoA QL results in a reduction in the activity of the wild - type Tg promoter as well as an artificial promoter the activation of which depends exclusively on TTF - 1 .
RESULTS : Expression of E - cadherin and alpha - catenin was reduced in 50 . 5 and 64 . 4 % , respectively .
CONCLUSIONS : VEGF - A ( 165 ) is one of the major angiogenesis regulators among the ligands ' family of VEGF , whereas its receptors KDR , and most probably Flt - 1 , may contribute to a poor prognosis ( angiogenic ) phenotype , as indicated by their upregulated MRNA levels in stage III neuroblastoma .
Therapeutic targeting of the survivin pathway in cancer : initiation of mitochondrial apoptosis and suppression of tumor - associated angiogenesis .
Autotaxin ( ATX ) , a potent tumor motogen , augments invasive and metastatic potential of ras - transformed cells .
Surgery is the primary treatment for stage I disease .
Lysates of cells from the granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor ( GM - CSF ) - dependent myeloid leukemic cell line TF1 were separated into high molecular weight ( HMW ) pellets of intact DNA and supernatants of fragmented low MW ( LMW ) DNA , and the DNA purified from these fractions was quantified .
Transforming alleles of Notch direct the expression of truncated proteins that primarily consist of N ( ic ) and are not tethered to the plasma membrane .
An antibody directed against PDGF receptor beta enhances the antitumor and the anti - angiogenic activities of an anti - VEGF receptor 2 antibody .
Thus , VEGF , Ang - 1 and - 2 may play complementary and coordinated roles in airway angiogenesis and microvascular remodeling , and these structural changes are potentially reversible by therapeutic intervention .
Angiogenesis is a fundamental process to normal and abnormal tissue growth and repair , which consists of recruiting endothelial cells toward an angiogenic stimulus .
This review provides basic information for the understanding of the biology of NF - kappaB and aims at presenting experimental data illustrating the involvement of NF - kappaB / Rel in pancreatic cancer .
CONCLUSION : Merlin protein might contribute to the initiation of metastasis of NSCLC .
Expression of cyclooxygenase ( COX ) - 2 plays a key role in tumorigenesis and development and peroxisome proliferator - activated receptor gamma ( PPARgamma ) has been implicated in the control of COX - 2 expression in some tissues .
Although one mutant allele was detected in revertant EMS - 1 - 19 , overexpression of this mutant allele failed to inhibit v - fos induced cell transformation .
Interleukin - 6 has been shown to be associated with tumor progression including inhibition of cancer cells apoptosis and stimulation of angiogenesis .
Here we review and comment on these findings and on their implications for cancer biology .
RESULTS : DCE - MRI revealed greater enhancement in the peripheral area than in the central area in all the examined animal models .
We did a blind prospective study in gastric cancer to assess the significance of isolated tumor cells ( ITC ) and to test the hypothesis that vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 1 ( VEGFR - 1 ) is expressed within the bone marrow at tumor - specific , premetastatic sites .
The clinical significance of MTSS1 will also be discussed .
Here we show that GR activation leads to both the rapid induction of MAPK phosphatase - 1 ( MKP - 1 ) mRNA and its sustained expression .
These results indicate carbohydrate metabolism is altered in dogs with lymphoma .
In neuronal cells , following Brn - 3a gene transfection and superexpression , an increase of 30 fold of the Bcl - 2 protein occurs , leading to apoptosis protection .
Together , these in vitro and in vivo studies are consistent with the concept that Ad vectors may provide a useful strategy for efficient local delivery of VEGF165 in the treatment of ischemic diseases .
METHODS : Four hundred eighty - four consecutive eyes of 446 patients treated with PDT from January 1 , 2001 , to June 30 , 2002 , were identified from billing records .
The development of carcinoma was examined in male Wistar rats ( n = 120 ) exposed to N - methyl - N ' - nitro - N - nitrosoguanidine ( MNNG ) in the drinking water ( 83 micrograms / ml ) for 16 weeks .
No significant association between p53 and VEGF expressions and poor prognosis was found .
There is more and more information on the role of ARF in the regulation of a cell cycle , apoptosis , and autophagy .
This study shows that angiogenin expression is up - regulated in the cytoplasmic and nuclear compartments in in situ carcinoma and invasive carcinoma compared with normal breast tissue and that angiogenin expression in invasive carcinomas is significantly positively associated with high tumour grade ( p = 0 . 03 ) , positive oestrogen receptor ( ER ) status ( p = 0 . 01 ) , HIF - 1 alpha ( p = 0 . 001 ) and DEC 1 ( p = 0 . 001 ) , but not with patient age ( p = 0 . 8 ) , tumour size ( p = 0 . 25 ) , lymph node status ( p = 0 . 69 ) , epidermal growth factor receptor ( p = 0 . 56 ) or microvessel density ( p = 0 . 32 ) .
RAGE ( receptor for AGE ) is the best characterized signal transduction receptor for AGEs and is expressed on mesothelial cells .
The special attention is focused on the ambiguity of the neutrophil role in oncogenesis .
To better understand the intracellular signaling pathways , we examined the effect of HKa on the phosphorylation of Akt and its downstream effector , GSK - 3alpha HKa and D5 inhibit phosphorylation of Akt and GSK - 3alpha after stimulation withVEGF and S1P .
In contrast , administration of the NAD ( P ) H oxidase inhibitor apocynin had no effect to the proliferative response to 20 - HETE .
Oral squamous cell carcinoma ( OSCC ) often metastasizes to the lymph nodes , and these enzymes may be significant in the survival of patients with this disease .
However , the frequency of the p . Val600Lys mutation was higher than in most other studies and comprised almost one - third of all BRAF mutations in our cohort ( 27 / 89 , 30 % ) .
Thus the metastatic phenotype of the hybrids was associated with expression of 72 kDa gelatinase .
We investigated here whether 6 popular antitumor compounds modify the cytotoxic activity of NaF against human squamous cell carcinoma ( HSC - 2 ) and human promyelocytic leukemia ( HL - 60 ) cell lines .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and Angiopoietin 1 ( Ang1 ) are both potent proangiogenic factors , but , whereas VEGF causes vascular permeability , Ang1 stabilizes blood vessels and protects them from VEGF - induced plasma leakage .
We have reported important benefits and survival with an immunotherapy schedule in patients with endocrine - dependent breast cancer and distant metastases .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the effect of osteopontin silencing on the invasion and apoptosis of U251 cells .
These data confirm the importance of tissue architecture and polarity in malignant progression .
In cultured cells , this molecule is physically associated with focal adhesions , which are well - defined regions of intimate cell - to - substratum adhesion .
Actin - sequestering protein , thymosin beta - 4 , is a novel hypoxia responsive regulator .
Many of their functions suggest that they play important roles in cancers .
After 1 drug - free week , the second course was administered with 120 mg / body / day of TS - 1 for 4 weeks .
PTTG - induced galectin - 1 transactivation and expression were mediated by c - Myc , and both inductions were suppressed by c - Myc RNAi cotranfection .
We have investigated the expression of the CD40 - CD154 system in 24 primary cultures derived from renal cell carcinomas , its correlation with tumor stage and its potential functional significance .
For electron microscopic examination the cell suspensions were then incubated with gold - labeled antirabbit antibody .
Furthermore , TGF - beta RII mutations in RER + tumors have been associated with decreased TGF - beta RII mRNA levels .
Lewis lung carcinomas , MT - ret melanomas , and B16F10 melanomas all grew slower in Ang - 2 - deficient mice .
CONCLUSION : The majority ( 81 % ) of breast carcinomas show survivin expression which correlates with bcl - x , another antiapoptotic marker , and both markers tend to correlate with prognosis .
TGFbeta1 was initially identified in culture media from transformed cells as part of a factor that could produce a transformed phenotype in a nontransformed cell line .
CONCLUSION : Immunohistochemically confirmed significance of the expression of VEGF in dependence of the CML stage could be of clinical importance in deciding on the timing therapy .
Brick1 ( Brk1 ) is the less - studied component of the Wave / Scar pathway involved in the branched nucleation of actin fibers .
The beclin 1 autophagy gene is monoallelically deleted in 40 - 75 % of cases of human sporadic breast , ovarian , and prostate cancer .
CONCLUSIONS : These observations suggested that several subtypes of the AQP family play a role in human breast carcinogenesis .
20 - Hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid ( 20 - HETE ) is formed by the omega - hydroxylation of arachidonic acid by cytochrome P450 4A and 4F enzymes , and it induces angiogenic responses in vivo .
Recent studies , however , indicate that even under normal physiological conditions certain activities of p53 participate in homeostatic regulation of metabolic processes and that these activities are important for prevention of cancer .
By using Northern hybridization , RNase protection assays , and primer extension analysis , the MSRs were determined to map antisense to the predicted translational start site of the ICP4 homolog gene .
Here , we show that the N - acetyltransferase arrest - defect 1 protein ( ARD1 ) functions as a unique AR regulator in PCa cells .
Furthermore , slow release administration by subcutaneous injection using an Alzet osmotic pump of a potent and bio - stable T140 analog , 4F - benzoyl - TN14003 , gave a partial , but statistically significant ( P < / = 0 . 05 ( t - test ) ) reduction in pulmonary metastasis of MDA - MB - 231 in SCID mice , even though no attempt was made to inhibit other important targets such as CCR7 .
Circulating endothelial cells in malignant disease .
Both PLD1 - and PLD2 - mediated cell cycle distributions in stable cell lines revealed an increased fraction of cells in the S phase compared with control cells .
The effect of taxol , cobalt chloride and a heparin - steroid combination was tested in the fat tissue assay and compared to the validated human placental vein angiogenesis model ( HPVAM ) .
Increases in these mRNA levels were similar in tumors of both low and high metastatic potential .
We found that silencing RASSF1C mRNA in breast cancer cell lines ( MDA - MB231 and T47D ) caused a small but significant decrease in cell proliferation .
These results indicate that VEGF - C plays a critical role in lymph node metastasis , in addition to serving as a platform to test the efficacy of various therapeutic modalities against lymph node metastasis .
It is the driving force for tumor development as it facilitates the accumulation of mutations in genes that regulate cell death and proliferation and therefore promotes malignant transformation .
Reduction of TCF activity in these cells attenuates their ability to form brain and bone metastases in mice , independently of effects on tumor growth in the lungs .
Synthetic vascular prostheses are foreign bodies , so that blood coagulation can occur on their luminal surfaces , causing graft occlusion very frequently in prostheses of small diameter .
There is comparatively less evidence to support the use of other treatment modalities for relief of symptoms in intermittent claudication , but there is considerable interest in therapeutic angiogenesis to promote new vessel formation and enhance collateralisation of the lower limb using recombinant growth factor proteins or gene transfer strategies .
METHODS : Thirty - six New Zealand white rabbits were evaluated in this study .
CONCLUSION : Exposure of clonal B lymphocytes from patients with CLL to simvastatin decreases viability significantly by the induction of apoptosis .
When used appropriately , and with adequate patient education regarding photosensitivity , the risk - benefit of verteporfin for the medical treatment of neovascular AMD is favourable .
Randomized , open label , prospective study on the effect of zoledronic acid on the prevention of bone metastases in patients with recurrent solid tumors that did not present with bone metastases at baseline .
High - risk human papillomaviruses ( HPVs ) are associated with carcinomas of the cervix and other genital tumors .
Tissue factor ( TF ) is an essential initiator of blood coagulation that is expressed in various stages of atherosclerotic lesions in humans and other animals .
Angiogenesis in platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule - 1 - null mice .
We investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying NRP1 - mediated angiogenesis by analyzing the association of NRP1 and KDR .
CONCLUSIONS : DCE - MRI permits a noninvasive evaluation of tumour microcirculation and in particular of its dynamic characteristics and vascularity before and after antiangiogenic treatment .
p53 does so through the induction of genes leading to growth arrest or apoptosis .
Since the HTR8 line has a limited in vitro lifespan of 12 - 15 passages , SV40 Tag - transformed cells were selected on the basis of extended lifespan .
Tissue integration and implant characteristics of various biomaterials commonly used for inguinal hernia repair have not been studied extensively .
The parameters considered are the number of platelets and their aggregability , prothrombin and partial thromboplastin times , plasma fibrinogen concentration and tumor cell procoagulant activity .
TP catalyzes the conversion of thymidine to thymine and doxyribose - 1 - phosphate ( dR - 1 - P ) .
The expressions of 14 - 3 - 3zeta and beta - catenin were detected by western blotting , double labeling immunofluorescence , confocal laser scanning microscopy and immunohistochemistry .
T - cell lines established from human T - cell leukemia - lymphoma virus associated T - cell neoplasias , in contrast to the T - cell acute lymphocytic leukemia cell lines , expressed both DR antigens and DR alpha mRNA ; the HpaII sites within the BglII fragment of DR alpha DNA of these human T - cell leukemia - lymphoma virus - positive T - cell lines were in all cases at least partially unmethylated .
These RNAs were not detectable in reticuloendotheliosis virus - transformed T cells .
Treatment of ovarian cancer cell lines with recombinant LL - 37 stimulated proliferation , chemotaxis , invasion and matrix metalloproteinase expression .
Mutations affecting nuclear transport were far more critical for the ability to interfere with myogenic differentiation than were those affecting the transforming potential ; cytoplasmic SVLT expression was fully compatible with the terminal differentiation of C2 cells , despite enabling them to grow in semisolid medium , thus showing that the myogenesis - inhibiting property can be dissociated from transforming competence .
PP also resulted in less connective tissue formation and foreign - body reaction than PF and PS prostheses .
Hypoxia also increased VEGF production by SCC lines , which was inhibited by treatment with SB203580 .
Emodin also induced differentiation of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells by exhibiting a morphological maturation property of large lacy nuclei surrounded by sizable flat cytoplasm and by showing a measurable production of large lipid droplets , which is a marker of mature breast cells .
Experimental flaps were found to be perfused fully with fluorescein and lead oxide ; control fat pads were found not to be perfused .
CONCLUSIONS : Low sVAP - 1 levels are associated with poor prognosis in gastric cancer .
Many studies on carcinogenesis carried out early in the last century are united on the consensus that cancer is a genetic disease .
Both WAP - T mice as well as WAP - mutCK1delta / WAP - T bi - transgenic mice developed breast cancer .
Endothelial cells grown at normal pH suffer no ill effects from this angiostatin - mediated inhibition of ATP synthase , whereas endothelial cells grown at low , tumor - like extracellular pH cannot maintain a normal intracellular pH and die .
METHODS : Ninety diabetic patients with chronic total occlusion in at least one major epicardial coronary artery were enrolled in the study .
The activity of succinate dehydrogenase was inhibited by 70 % by 3 - BrPA treatment .
Inhibition by N - ( phosphonacetyl ) - L - aspartate of Ehrlich ascites tumour growth and glucose transport .
Together , these findings suggest that NCAM may limit tumor cell metastasis by stabilizing the microvessel wall .
Nuclear translocation of a clusterin isoform is associated with induction of anoikis in SV40 - immortalized human prostate epithelial cells .
Histologic parameters ( primary and secondary bone trabecula , neovascularization , and bone marrow and connective tissue formation ) were compared between 4 - and 16 - week groups . More rapid decrease in defect size was observed in groups 3 and 4 than in groups 1 and 2 , both in the 4th and 16th weeks .
Clinical , laboratory , histopathological , and pharmacological evidence support the notion that the coagulation system , which is activated in most cancer patients , plays an important role in tumor biology .
This study identifies genes expressed early in 12 - O - tetradecanoylphorbol - 13 - acetate ( TPA ) - induced skin carcinogenesis in genetically initiated Tg . AC v - Ha - ras transgenic mice .
Southern blotting and probing with PCR - synthesized cDNA fragments of the mouse 72 kDa type IV collagenase gene showed that this gene was present in all cells although the structure of this gene in one of the three LTA cell lines differed from that of the other cells .
Expression , regulation , and function of IGF - 1 , IGF - 1R , and IGF - 1 binding proteins in blood vessels .
These diagrams show the relative rates of glycolysis , the tricarboxylic acid cycle , electron transport , and the malate - aspartate shuttle in these tumors .
The cells on 15 - microm wide strips completely aligned in the direction of the strip , and had significantly lower shape index than those in all other groups .
These effects of alpha - MSH may have important regulatory functions in extracellular matrix composition , wound healing , or angiogenesis .
Together , these data further establish the involvement of endothelial PECAM - 1 in angiogenesis and suggest that , in vivo , PECAM - 1 may stimulate endothelial cell motility by promoting the formation of filopodia .
The results in steady state reveal that both substrates glucose and glutamine are continuously wasted by tumour cells , excreting two moles of lactate per mol of glucose and one mol of glutamate and ammonia per mol of glutamine consumed into the medium .
BACKGROUND : A potent angiogenesis inhibitor , U - 995 , has been purified from the cartilage of the blue shark ( Prionace glauca ) .
Neovascularization , an essential event for the growth of solid tumors , is regulated by a number of angiogenic factors .
The expression of TIMP1 suggests that the anti - proteolytic stimuli may be preponderant in p63 - positive carcinomas .
However , the molecular mechanism of these effects is not understood .
Grape seed extract ( GSE ) , a widely used dietary supplement , is known to have antitumor activity .
Dose - and time - dependent effects of doxorubicin on cytotoxicity , cell cycle and apoptotic cell death in human colon cancer cells .
Interestingly , under normal conditions muscle cells express only a approximately 5 . 5 - kb type II HK RNA transcript .
Our results indicate that the nuclear phosphatase activity is inhibited by greater than 50 % in Galpha ( 12 ) QL cells compared to vector control cells .
This review will focus on perlecan - growth factor interactions and describe recent advances in our understanding of this highly conserved proteoglycan during development , cancer growth , and angiogenesis .
We present evidence that apoptosis of caspase - 3 - deficient MCF - 7 breast cancer cells is defective in response to cisplatin treatment , as determined by chromatin condensation , nuclear fragmentation , DNA fragmentation , and release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria .
TEL is a member of the ETS family of transcription factors that interacts with the mSin3 and SMRT corepressors to regulate transcription .
Comet assay revealed a late onset of DNA breaks in the presence of 2 - DG following irradiation only in spheroids , which corroborated well with the late onset of oxidative stress .
Using immunoblot analysis , we show that AdGFPFasL ( TET ) is capable of initiating the classic Fas - mediated apoptotic pathway in DU145 cells , which includes activation of caspases - 8 , - 3 , - 7 , and - 9 , BID cleavage , cytochrome c release from mitochondria , and PARP cleavage .
It is considered that resection of the primary tumor induces activation of systemic angiogenesis and enhances progression of remote metastasis .
Photodynamic therapy with verteporfin for subfoveal choroidal neovascularization secondary to pathologic myopia : long - term study .
Tumor - free mice were used as controls .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is an angiogenic stimulator which functions through two endothelial specific tyrosine kinase receptors , Flt - 1 and Flk - 1 .
As determined by ELISA and immunoblot assays , ras p21 in the serum increased with increased tumor growth .
Similar results have been obtained with tumor cell lines and experimental animal models .
The size of these A431 tumors did not differ significantly from those of control A431 tumors raised without F - 2 cells .
METHODS : Sixty - two patients ( 62 eyes ) with PM underwent PDT according to the guidelines of the Verteporfin in Photodynamic Therapy Study .
The most common genetic alterations found in a wide variety of cancers are p53 tumor suppressor gene mutations .
A preponderance of viable fat , with evidence of neovascularization , was found in experimental flaps , compared with the necrotic fat that characterized the controls .
Spontaneous metastasis indicates a possible reverse correlation .
To identify a suitable donor cell population for gene therapy applications to the central nervous system , primary fibroblasts isolated from skin biopsies and maintained in culture are employed as autologous cells for intracerebral grafting within the adult rat striatum .
This transporter was expressed on the cell membrane and in the cytoplasm of the tumor cells , but exhibited marked intratumoral and intertumoral variability in the proportions of positive cells and the intensity of staining .
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE : Cerebral cavernous malformations ( CCMs ) are prevalent cerebral vascular lesions involving aberrant angiogenesis .
317615 x 2HCl was an active antitumor agent against the MX - 1 xenograft and increased the tumor growth delay produced by paclitaxel by 1 . 7 - fold and the tumor growth delay produced by carboplatin by 3 . 8 - fold .
The effects of 3 - mercaptopicolinic acid , a potent inhibitor of gluconeogenesis , was also examined on this model .
Furthermore , E7 mutant proteins impaired in their ability to bind p600 were transformation defective .
Immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated that Fas associated with c - erbB2 and c - met in untreated cells .
Two microsatellite regions found altered in RER + colon cancers were analyzed to establish if these sequences were aberrant in CML .
Matrigel plug neovascularization assay revealed that systemic angiogenic activity was elevated after primary tumor removal ( tumor intact group , 1 . 61 + / - 0 . 21 g / dL ; tumor removed group , 4 . 92 + / - 0 . 35 g / dL ) .
Calretinin .
Relationship and prognostic significance of SPARC and VEGF protein expression in colon cancer .
MDM2 overexpression was manually classified as > 5 % nuclear staining .
While in control specimens are ara - C dose - dependent increase in 3H - ara - C uptake was accompanied by a corresponding rise in intracellular ara - C - 5 ' triphosphate ( ara - CTP ) levels , ara - CTP concentrations were not increased after GM - CSF or IL - 3 exposure , resulting in a higher ara - C to ara - CTP ratio over controls .
In experimental breast cancer , estradiol increased IL - 8 whereas the anti - estrogen tamoxifen inhibited the secretion of IL - 8 both in vitro and extracellularly in vivo in tumors of nude mice .
Similar results were also obtained with respect to 5 - FU .
Chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter - transcription factor II ( COUP - TFII ) plays an essential role in angiogenesis and development .
Activation of MybER both prevented the growth arrest induced by interleukin - 6 ( IL - 6 ) and rapidly restored c - myc expression in nearly terminal differentiated cells that had been exposed to IL - 6 for 3 days .
However , fetal utilization of oxygen and glucose , on a weight basis , remain constant compared with control pregnancies .
The p53 - dependent and p - 53 - independent functions of this protein are under many studies .
The mechanisms whereby RNA leukemia viruses cause lymphoid neoplasia after a long latent period have been extensively studied but are only partially understood .
Glut - 2 was expressed in all of the tumors , but the intensity of staining was not consistently stronger than that seen in healthy breast .
Considering also that clusterin is downregulated during prostate cancer onset and progression , and that its upregulation has inhibited DNA synthesis and cell cycle progression of immortalized human prostate epithelial cells , we suggest that clusterin might be a new anti - oncogene in the prostate .
Clear cell renal cell carcinoma ( CC - RCC ) is a highly vascularised tumour and is therefore an attractive disease to study angiogenesis and to test novel angiogenesis inhibitors in early clinical development .
We analyzed the relative abundance of ST3 and BM - 40 / SPARC transcripts by Northern blot , and their distribution by in situ hybridization , in normal mucosa , benign adenomas , and primary colorectal adenocarcinomas and their liver metastases .
Hypoxia - activated functional HIF - 1 protein binds to hypoxia - responsive elements ( HRE ) in the enhancers of several genes including VEGF , the major player in angiogenesis , and initiates their mRNA expression .
An increase of atrophy over the Retinal Pigment Epithelium ( RPE ) was observed in another patient .
Mechanisms responsible for hyperinvasiveness and resistance to anti - invasive action of TGFbeta .
Immunotargeting using an anti - IGF - IR neutralizing antibody on human fetal lung explants demonstrated a significant blockade of IGF - IR signaling .
In order to understand the underlying mechanism by which TSC phenolic fraction potentiates BPDE - induced tumorigenicity , we examined its effect on the activation of two transcription factors AP - 1 and NF - kappaB which are known to be influenced by established tumor promoter TPA .
This in vitro morphological appearance was exactly reproduced in the in vivo tumors , which were formed when the mixture of A431 and F - 2 cells at the ratio of 10 : 1 were cotransplanted s . c . into the back of nude rats .
An alternative and rather obvious strategy to treat ischemia is to activate endogenous angiogenic or arteriogenic pathways to stimulate revascularization of the tissue .
Tumor volume and total hemoglobin in allograft mice treated with 50 mg / kg DATS were significantly smaller than that in the control group .
The induction of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and interleukin - 8 ( IL - 8 ) is an essential feature of tumor angiogenesis , and the hypoxia - inducible factor - 1 ( HIF - 1 ) transcription factor is known to be a key regulator of this process .
However , the transfer of either the p16 or Rb gene to glioma cells results in cytostatic effect .
CONCLUSIONS : PDT can reduce the clinical signs of activity , such as choroidal hyperpermeability or neurosensorial retinal detachment , in patients affected by chronic CSC .
This finding may help to elucidate the relationship of WT1 and N - myc in tumorigenesis and renal development .
Several reports have indicated that tetracyclines can suppress tumor MPs as well .
The functional benefit of cell transplantation after a myocardial infarction is diminished by early cell losses .
RESULTS : P14 and P18 blocked endothelial cell chemotaxis ; P18 and P23 induced apoptosis .
After over 30 years of theorizing , the use of angiogenesis inhibitors as anticancer therapy has finally moved from the realm of research to reality .
TNFalpha is an important inflammation cytokine and is crucial to the development of inflammation - associated cancers .
Moreover , the downregulation of c - myc oncogene by an antisense strategy might represent a useful goal for improving the efficacy of this anti - neoplastic drug family .
Lactate and pyruvate , the end products of glycolysis , are highly produced by cancer cells even in the presence of oxygen .
It is synthesised and secreted by the ciliary body epithelium ( CBE ) from the initiation of CBE development in the embryo , and production continues throughout life .
Vaccination is associated with enhancement of splenocyte - mediated tumoricidal activity , whereas the effect of gammaIFN is mediated by KC .
Autopsy studies have revealed that intimal thickening represents the first stage of atherosclerosis and that lipid - rich plaque arises from such lesions .
Hepatitis B virus integration event in human chromosome 17p near the p53 gene identifies the region of the chromosome commonly deleted in virus - positive hepatocellular carcinomas .
The effect of perfluorocarbon - based artificial oxygen carriers on tissue - engineered trachea .
The protein expression was determined by Western blot analysis .
Results were compared to findings in a control group .
TGF - beta effects on angiogenesis , stroma formation , and immune function suggest its possible involvement in tumor progression .
Exposure of wild - type primary mouse cerebral endothelial cells to the CD47 ligand thrombospondin 1 ( TSP - 1 ) induced an increasing amount of cell death , whereas cytotoxicity was significantly decreased in cerebral endothelial cells derived from CD47 knockout mice .
Here we examined expression of type IV collagenases in parental LTA and NIH 3T3 cells ( with and without ras ) and four metastatic LTA x NIH 3T3 hybrids ( also with and without ras ) .
Hypoxia - induced gene expression in cancer cells has been linked to malignant transformation .
Protein expression profile of primary human squamous cell lung carcinomas indicative of the incidence of metastases .
p53 targets involved in cell - cycle arrest and apoptosis showed the same mode of regulation , indicating that , in vivo , both are activated simultaneously .
Here , in order to characterize the role of the promoter that drives DSCR - 1s expression in mediating inducible expression in vivo and to determine the functional relevance of DSCR - 1s in inflammation , we targeted a DNA construct containing 1 . 7 kb of the human DSCR1s promoter coupled to the lacZ reporter to the hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase ( Hprt ) locus of mice .
CONCLUSIONS : Young donor - derived MSCs can improve heart function significantly through angiogenesis and decreasing cardiomyocyte apoptosis when transplanted to the infarcted area .
A small GTPase Arf6 primarily regulates recycling of plasma membrane components .
A multitude of VEGF - targeted inhibitory agents are currently being investigated for the treatment of cancer .
Patterns of X - chromosome inactivation , mutations in the K - ras gene , mutations or allelic loss of the p53 gene , or human papillomavirus detection were identical in both endometrial and ovarian lesions in three of the cases suggesting that those three cases represented single primary tumors with metastases .
Sequencing of exons 5 through 8 of the p53 gene revealed no mutations , nor were mutations detected in the N - or K - ras protooncogenes in four of the carcinomas and their respective metastatic deposits .
Pericytes occur in tumour blood vessels and are critical for the development of a functional vascular network .
Furthermore , IL - 1beta - induced p38 mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) activation and upregulation of VEGF - C mRNA and protein in LLC cells was also suppressed by artemisinin or by the p38 MAPK inhibitor SB - 203580 , suggesting that p38 MAPK could serve as a mediator of proinflammatory cytokine - induced VEGF - C expression .
Expression of PTEN mRNA and protein in normal gastric mucosa and gastric cancer was evaluated by RT - PCR and SABC immunohistochemistry , respectively .
A similar trend was noted in the SCCVII tumor model .
Four drugs with potential anti - peritumoral brain edema activity were studied using the VX2 rabbit brain tumor model .
Regulation of p53 - dependent apoptosis , transcriptional repression , and cell transformation by phosphorylation of the 55 - kilodalton E1B protein of human adenovirus type 5 .
Ploidy analysis was carried out on 39 EOGCs and immunohistochemistry of CDC4 / FBXW7 and its substrates c - myc , c - jun , Notch and cyclin E was performed on 204 gastric carcinomas using tissue microarrays ( TMAs ) .
No alteration was detected in either of these regions in any phase of the disease .
Exposure of SKOV - 3 cells to paclitaxel or carboplatin along with 317615 2HCl resulted in cell survivals that reflected additivity of 317615 x 2HCl with paclitaxel and greater - than - additive cytotoxicity with carboplatin .
These results demonstrate the importance of specific oncogene interaction in myeloid leukemogenesis .
Contemporary perspectives on vital pulp therapy : views from the endodontists and pediatric dentists .
In 1997 , the PTEN gene ( phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 ) was identified as a tumor suppressor gene on the long arm of chromosome 10 .
FM - MSC were obtained from Lewis rats and had surface antigen expression and multipotent potential partly similar to those of BM - MSC .
A vascular prosthesis needs angiogenesis for endothelialization of the luminal surface , as endothelial cells have natural and permanent antithrombogenic properties .
In addition , silencing of S6K1 induced apoptosis accompanied by a decrease in the phosphorylation of BAD and Bcl - 2 , similar to that observed with sunitinib treatment .
Induction of IL - 8 was UV - B dose dependent and blocked by cyclohexamide , indicating that de novo protein synthesis is required for its expression .
The role of SWAP - 70 in oncogenic transformation of mouse embryo fibroblasts ( MEFs ) by v - Src was examined by use of MEFs defective in SWAP - 70 .
These observations , combined with new molecular insights with HIF - 1alpha and c - myc , have rekindled an interest in this important phenotype .
No harmful side effects were attributed to TEMF .
Tumor necrosis factor - alpha ( TNF - alpha ) was first isolated two decades ago as a macrophageproduced protein that can effectively kill tumor cells .
Presence of 2 - DG ( 5 mM ) for 2 - 4 h inhibited the glucose usage and lactate production by 70 % in spheroids , while a 35 % reduction was observed in monolayer cells .
This reduction disappeared with increasing distance from the tumor .
Scanning electron microscopy of vascular casts in experimental ocular vasoproliferation .
RT - PCR and western blot techniques were used to validate target gene expression .
This allowed coexpression of the two proteins and a comparison with the same vector containing either v - erbA or v - myb only .
The 5 - year survival rate in cases with higher KISS1 protein expression was significantly higher than in those with low expression ( 20 . 9 vs . 2 . 4 % , p < 0 . 01 ) .
The level of VEGF expression correlated inversely with the degree of splenomegaly ( Pearson , r = - 0 . 400 , p = 0 . 011 ) .
Our results support the use of FDG PET in clinical trials with RAF265 to assess early tumor response .
These data imply that PSMA participates in an autoregulatory loop , wherein active PSMA facilitates integrin signaling and PAK activation , leading to both productive invasion and downregulation of integrin beta ( 1 ) signaling via reduced PSMA activity .
Suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid ( SAHA ) has been approved as a drug to treat cutaneous T cell lymphoma , and the combination of HDACi and other agents have been actively tested in many clinical trials .
RESULTS : Robo1 and Robo4 knockdown cells display distinct activity in endothelial cell migration assay .
However , survival analysis showed that the COUP - TFII - positive group had a significantly better OS compared to COUP - TFII - negative group ( 80 . 4 % vs . 57 . 7 % , P = 0 . 0491 ) .
Treatment with the antiangiogenic reagent TNP - 470 suppressed postoperative progression of pulmonary metastasis .
The expression of endostatin in situ and its maintaining time were detected by immunohistochemistry and Western Blot , respectively .
Optimizing treatment of choroidal neovascularization feeder vessels associated with age - related macular degeneration .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : In the present study , we investigated the effects of 2ME2 alone and in combination with paclitaxel , an active agent in recurrent or advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
In addition , we showed that paclitaxel downregulated the phosphorylation of Akt in both HeLa and CaSki cells .
Transcriptional and post - translation regulation of the Tie1 receptor by fluid shear stress changes in vascular endothelial cells .
CONCLUSIONS : Rab5a and Rab7a regulate VEGFR2 trafficking toward early and late endosomes .
Furthermore , mouse embryonic fibroblasts required the presence of B16F0 cells to express Patched in a co - culture assay system .
A panel of antibodies was used for immunohistochemistry : CD34 / Ki - 67 , carbonic anhydrase IX , hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha ( HIF - 1alpha ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
The patterns of lymphatic vessels , the expression of VEGFs , and their correlation with neck metastases were assessed .
METHODS : The expression of DCC and netrin - 1 in normal endometrial glands and in cancer cell lines was examined by RT - PCR and immunohistochemistry .
Platelets release several growth factors and bioactive agents that play a central role in development of not only thrombus but also of intimal thickening .
ICAM - 3 also increased Akt phosphorylation , which caused an increase in cellular migration / invasion and MMP activities .
Antioxidants significantly reduced TNFalpha - induced genetic damage .
A preponderance of work has been focused on the molecular mechanisms underlying this effect , with the expectation that a mechanistic understanding may lead to novel therapeutic approaches .
Our results suggest heterogeneity in angiogenic activity and vessel maturation of CC - RCC , to a large extent linked to nuclear grade , and , with probable therapeutic implications .
PURPOSE : To optimize the method of treating choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) associated with age - related macular degeneration ( AMD ) .
Increased nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 messenger RNA expression and absence of mutations in colon carcinomas of low and high metastatic potential .
Phosphorylation of Thr654 by protein kinase C decreases high affinity EGF binding and EGF - stimulated tyrosine protein kinase activity , providing a mechanism for heterologous regulation of the EGF receptor by tumor promoters and other ligand X receptor complexes .
RESULTS : The diagnostic sensitivity of this new immunocytochemical approach reached 100 % for the eight malignant mesotheliomas investigated .
Cooperative transformation by c - MYC and OSM required PI3K and AKT signaling , showing the importance of multiple signaling pathways downstream of the OSM receptor in defining the cellular response to cytokines .
IL - 17F deficiency inhibits small intestinal tumorigenesis in ApcMin / + mice .
As with duplication of the entire TK / CAIN region ( exons 18 - 26 ) in A - 172 cells , duplication of exons 18 - 25 is associated with a specific genomic rearrangement between flanking introns .
Folate supplementation may reduce the risk of colorectal dysplasia and cancer in subjects with chronic ulcerative colitis ( UC ) .
The presence of bFGF in the extracellular compartment of a diverse variety of organs may play a role in angiogenesis .
The angiogenic potency of adipose tissue was not related to its localization ( with an angiogenic stimulation in 60 % of SAT samples and 61 % of VAT samples ) or to adipocyte size or inflammatory infiltrate assessed in adipose samples before the graft on CAM .
Heparin - steroid conjugates : new angiogenesis inhibitors with antitumor activity in mice .
Metastasis - associated 5T4 antigen disrupts cell - cell contacts and induces cellular motility in epithelial cells .
To understand the molecular mechanisms underlying compound - induced hemangiosarcomas in mice , and therefore , their human relevance , a systems biology approach was undertaken using transcriptomics and Causal Network Modeling from mice treated with 2 - butoxyethanol ( 2 - BE ) .
DNA microarray analysis allows for analysis of drug effects on multiple pathways linked to cancer and can suggest corresponding imaging tracers for further analysis as biomarkers of tumor response .
As expected , Ang II - induced sFlt - 1 secretion resulted in the inhibition of endothelial cell migration and in vitro tube formation .
After removal of fibroblasts by exposure to G - 418 , the tumor cells exhibited increased metastatic ability and human K - ras oncogene mRNA , suggesting an intimate interaction between H - 3 cells and fibroblasts influencing the function of transfected human K - ras oncogene .
Other anti - angiogenic therapies alter the immune response and endogeneous angiogenesis inhibitor levels .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the expression of PTEN and loss of heterozygosity ( LOH ) of its epigenetic microsatellite in gastric carcinoma and explore their roles in progression of gastric carcinoma .
In this study we separated weakly acidic phenolic components from other neutral , acidic and basic components of tobacco smoke condensate ( TSC ) and observed that phenolic fraction of TSC significantly increased the number of colonies of promotion - sensitive JB6 Cl41 cells that showed anchorage - independent growth on soft agar in response to BPDE ( an ultimate carcinogen produced by metabolic activation of the PAH benzo [ a ] pyrene ) .
Integration of HPV DNA frequently disrupts the E2 open reading frames , resulting in overexpression of the E6 and E7 oncoproteins and possibly causing genomic instability .
This review will summarize the current position of CECs , EPCs and EMPs in cell biology terms , with particular emphasis on their relationship to malignant disease .
It is involved in a number of physiologic and pathologic events including angiogenesis , apoptosis , inflammation , wound healing and tumor metastasis .
The alternative splicing of Brn - 3a mRNA produces two molecular forms : a longer , Bcl - 2 transactivating form , and a shorter inactive form , lacking 84 AA in the aminoterminus .
The expression of HLA - DR was correlated with the histologic type .
Strong positive expression of mEndostatin was seen in the tumor tissue after injection of Ad - mEndostatin , immunhistochemically ostained by mouse endostatin monoclonal antibody , while the control groups showed only very low expression or absence .
[ Autologous bone marrow stem cell or peripheral blood endothelial progenitor cell therapy in patients with peripheral limb ischaemia ]
In vitro studies found that exposure to Cum - OOH reduced the level of glutathione ( GSH ) in mouse epidermal cells ( JB6 P + ) and caused the induction of AP - 1 .
Excitotoxic damage due to striatal infusion of an NMDA - receptor agonist ( cis - 2 , 4 - methanoglutamate ) was also markedly inhibited ( 71 % ) by injection of the IL - 1ra .
We revealed that expression of p53 proteins with amino - acid substitutions at codons 175 ( R175H ) , 248 ( R248W ) , and 273 ( R273H ) , representing the hot - spots of mutations in various human tumors , increased the number of vessels in HCT116 human colon carcinoma xenografts and , as a result , accelerated their growth .
Vasodilator - stimulated phosphoprotein is involved in stress - fiber and membrane ruffle formation in endothelial cells .
Potential roles for focal adhesion kinase in development .
[ Role of the tumor suppressor ARF in oncogenesis ]
Inhibition of the UV - induced activation of Erbb2 also resulted in milder epidermal hyperplasia , S - phase accumulation , and decreased levels of the cell cycle regulator Cdc25a , suggesting altered cell cycle regulation on inhibition of Erbb2 .
In concordance with its higher affinity for tumor Hsp90 , in vivo PU24FCl accumulates in tumors while being rapidly cleared from normal tissue .
VEGF gene expression and capillary density in the old donor - derived group were lower than those in the young donor - derived group but higher than those in the control group ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
These data provide a morphologic ( angiogenesis and increased endothelial area ) and molecular ( enhanced NOS activity and endothelial NOS upregulation ) basis for explaining the permeability changes observed in long - term PD .
Serum and urine levels of interleukin - 8 in patients with non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma .
Here , we demonstrate that D2 dopamine receptor ( D2DR ) colocalizes with VEGFR - 2 at the cell surface .
SPARC maybe involved in the regulation of anti - angiogenesis by which it may serve as a novel target for colon cancer treatment as well as a novel distinctive marker .
Cox proportional hazards multivariate analysis ( MVA ) was used to determine the relation of MDM2 to the endpoints .
P18 increased the production of CD95 ligand and reduced the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 by the endothelial cells in vivo .
CONCLUSION : These results suggest that mutant p53 expression is associated with angiogenesis and distant metastasis in esophageal SCC , and that the coexpression of p53 and VEGF may play an important role in angiogenesis , and have important clinical significance .
However , the role of IL - 17F in intestinal tumorigenesis has not been addressed .
Integrins and growth factors are capable of activating the ras / MAP kinase pathway in vitro , yet how these signals influence endothelial cells during angiogenesis is unknown .
To evaluate the biological significance of M - CSF induced VEGF production , we used an in vivo angiogenesis model to illustrate the ability of M - CSF to recruit mononuclear phagocytes , increase VEGF levels , and enhance angiogenesis .
In vivo , LeTx decreased MAPK activity and blocked fibrosarcoma growth .
There were significant differences in s - VEGF between the RCC patients and the controls ( 207 . 3 + / - 32 . 9 vs . 71 . 5 + / - 9 . 1 pg / ml , mean + / - SE ) ( P less than 0 . 005 ) , between the tumor - bearing renal veins and the contralateral ones ( P less than 0 . 01 ) , between the pre - and post - nephrectomy situations ( P less than 0 . 01 ) and among the various parameters of tumor status such as tumor extent ( P less than 0 . 001 ) and existence of metastasis ( P less than 0 . 001 ) .
Moreover , TKI - 31 dose - dependently suppressed HUVEC tube formation .
Factors including thrombin and fibrin , which are downstream of the coagulation cascade activated by TF , also contribute to atherosclerosis .
In addition , syndecans bind to obesity - related factors and regulate their signaling , in turn modulating food consumption and weight balance .
Lipid / cholesterol - lowering agents , diet and antiplatelet adherence ( aspirin ) therapy may help slow the progression of vessel disease in some instances ; but surgical reconstruction may be the only option in advanced stages , and even this is not always an option .
The prognostic value of PE was also evaluated by dividing MDS / AML patients into high and low PE groups using the median PE level of normal controls as the cut - off .
Macrophages are essential mediators of inflammation and wound healing .
RESULTS : No correlation was found between tumor prognosis and EGFR , ICAM - 1 or Fas .
Coronary collateral circulation ( CCC ) was analyzed according to the Rentrop system .
There is considerable debate concerning where in the cell Notch functions and what proteins serve as effectors of the Notch signal .
In this study , we address the mechanism by which VEGFR - 2 phosphorylation is regulated by dopamine .
RESULTS : The cRGD - HL significantly inhibited adhesion and migration of endothelial cells to vitronectin , and tubular structures of endothelial cells .
Suppression of tumor growth by the 3 ' untranslated region of mel - 18 in 3Y1 cells transformed by the E6 and E7 genes of human papillomavirus type 18 .
In our study , MOG was shown to specifically inhibit the growth of human leukemia cell lines and primary acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) blasts via induction of apoptosis , with the evidence of mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss , reactive oxygen species production , caspases activation and nuclear fragmentation .
Moreover , regional administration of L - NAME , in combination with TNF and melphalan , was studied in an isolated limb perfusion ( ILP ) model using BN175 soft - tissue sarcomas .
Possible role of cyclooxygenase II in the acquisition of ovarian luteal function in rodents .
SD rats underwent MI received intramyocardial injection of MSCs from young donor rats ( n = 8 ) , old donor rats ( n = 8 ) , respectively .
A5 - 1 inhibits the integrin - fibronectin interaction in a dose - dependent manner ( IC ( 50 ) ; 1 . 56 + / - 0 . 28 microM .
Thirty - two genes were selected encoding molecules involved in endothelial cell activation , particularly fibrinolysis , vascular tone , OS , angiogenesis and also inflammation .
We found that the mean tumor volumes and weights were statistically significantly less in mice treated with galectin - 3C compared with control mice , and that fewer numbers of mice exhibited lymph node metastases in the treated group compared with the control group .
The ras - transformed , ATX - secreting subclones had enhanced motility to ATX as chemoattractant , but there was little difference in the motility responses of NIH3T3 cells transfected with atx , an inactive mutant gene , or empty vector .
Single conditional knockouts for Smad1 or Smad5 or mice homozygous null for Smad8 are viable and fertile .
These results indicate the possibility that activation of angiogenic activity after resection of osteosarcoma tumors enhances progression of pulmonary metastasis .
Treatment with the combination of 1B3 and DC101 in BxPC - 3 xenograft - bearing mice resulted in tumor regression in 58 % of mice compared to that in 18 % of mice treated with DC101 alone .
PMN - triggered angiogenesis is also blocked by both local injection and daily i . p . administration of the Hyp salt in an interleukin - 8 - induced murine model .
This desensitization was without effect upon the concentration causing half - maximal effect ( EC50 ) , dissociation constant ( Kd ) or number of PGF2 alpha receptors .
Anti - endosialin antibodies may have value in identifying vasculature in malignant tissues .
In the meantime preventive use of bisphosphonates in patients without any bone metastases should not be used outside the scope of a clinical trial .
Expression and purification of the catalytic domain of human vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 for inhibitor screening .
Chromosomal translocations are found to be a characteristic feature of Burkitt lymphomas .
Targeting the PIM kinase family could provide a new avenue to overcome resistance against small - molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors .
Serum endostatin concentration was 1540 + / - 560 ng / ml at the second week of administration , the expression of endostatin diminished a month later .
Mechanical strain induced CBP - mediated acetylation of histones 3 and 4 at the SRF - binding site and within the CCN1 gene coding region .
VEGF - A ( 165 ) mainly contributes to increased serum VEGF levels and may serve as a diagnostic tool in advanced - stage neuroblastoma .
The present findings indicate that vandetanib therapy effectively counteracted the aggressive feature of tumor growth resulting from VEGF over - expressing tumor cells and suggest that such tumors may be particularly well suited for anti - VEGF interventions .
When MDV was reactivated by treatment of lymphoblastoid cells with 25 micrograms of iododeoxyuridine per ml , the relative levels of the transcripts decreased .
The control WB cells in continuous culture slowly developed TGF - beta resistance .
A partial response ( PR ) was obtained after the first course with regression of multiple pulmonary metastases .
Cytokines play an important role in creating an inflammatory microenvironment , which is now considered a hallmark of cancer .
No correlations were observed between glycolytic rates and pAkt levels .
Previous studies reported that the Tumor Susceptibility Gene 101 ( TSG101 ) is upregulated in selected human malignancies , and the expression of exogenous Tsg101 was suggested to transform immortalized fibroblasts in culture .
Here we produced a neutralizing antibody , 1B3 , directed against mouse PDGFRbeta .
Thus TF , in addition to factors downstream of the coagulation cascade and the protease - activated receptor 2 activation system , would be a multifactorial regulator of atherogenesis .
In test group , the external maxillary artery bundle was passed through the marrow cavity of the bone .
Transformation by Rous sarcoma virus results in a dramatic increase in the rate at which the transformed cells transport glucose across the cell membrane .
Recently serum S - 100beta has shown promise as a tumour marker in melanoma ; however , its use as a prognostic marker in the advanced stage needs to be confirmed .
Three vascular grades were defined with appraisal by eye and by Chalkley counting : high ( Chalkley score 7 - 12 ) , medium ( 5 - 6 ) , and low ( 2 - 4 ) .
Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) transforms B lymphocytes through the expression of the latent viral proteins EBNA and latent membrane protein ( LMP ) .
The latter in its parent form or in its sugar form , deoxyribose ( dR ) may play a role in the induction of angiogenesis .
Its control of growth factor signaling usually involves interactions with the heparan sulfate chains covalently coupled to the protein core ' s N - terminus .
Glucocorticoid receptor - induced MAPK phosphatase - 1 ( MPK - 1 ) expression inhibits paclitaxel - associated MAPK activation and contributes to breast cancer cell survival .
This study aimed to explore the correlation between the expression of VEGF - C in TAMs and lymphatic metastasis in human oral squamous - cell carcinoma ( OSCC ) .
With a p53 - null cell line ( EU - 4 ) , although doxorubicin treatment arrested cells in G ( 2 ) / M , survivin expression was unchanged , and cells underwent only limited apoptosis .
Newly formed bone densities were also found to be higher in these 2 groups .
PURPOSE : The aim of this study was to investigate the use of D2 - 40 for the detection of lymphovascular invasion ( LVI ) in node positive and negative early breast cancer .
Effects of morphological patterning on endothelial cell migration .
In addition , AglRhz induced activation of caspase - 3 and poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase ( PARP ) , and DNA fragmentation in HT - 29 cells , leads to induction of apoptosis as well as suppression of tumorigenicity of HT - 29 cells .
In brain , receptors for VEGF have been localized to vascular endothelium , neurons , and glia .
In a first step , proteins were selected which showed a relationship to lymph node involvement .
METHODS : We used ribonuclease protection assays to analyze human colon tumors for the level of nm23 - H1 ( 43 samples ) and nm23 - H2 ( 41 samples ) transcript ( mRNA ) expression and the presence of mutations that could inactivate potential suppressor function .
Induction of FOXO3a activity in doxorubicin - sensitive MCF - 7 cells was sufficient to promote Akt phosphorylation and arrest cell proliferation .
The mechanism underlying the association between high PE and poor clinical outcome is unclear , although it may be related to the possible PE reflection of tumor burden .
Ha - ras cells also show less binding of phorbol ester than control cells , suggesting that elevation of DG causes partial down - regulation in addition to activation of protein kinase C .
[ Ambiguity role of neutrophils in oncogenesis ]
Converging studies from many investigators indicate that RUNX1 has a critical role in the correct maintenance of essential cellular functions during embryonic development and after birth .
CONCLUSION : This study identifies specific components of the Robo signaling apparatus that work together to guide directional migration of endothelial cells .
Ultrastructural evidence reveals that at 8 weeks the grafts are composed primarily of collagen and fibroblasts with rough endoplasmic reticulum and vesicles .
In this review , the mechanisms and factors involved in tumor blood vessel formation are discussed .
The N - myc proto - oncogene encodes a transcription factor which regulates cell growth and differentiation .
CONCLUSIONS : PE is a useful prognostic predictor of CR and OS for AML / MDS patients .
Here we present PU24FCl , a representative of the first class of designed Hsp90 inhibitors .
As HIF - 2alpha activity has been associated not only with hypoxic but also with hypoglycemic conditions , we have investigated putative effects of hypoxia , glucose depletion , and HIF - 2alpha on the neuroblastoma phenotype .
Additional activities of p53 in non - stressed cells tune up the antioxidant defense mechanisms reducing the probability of mutations caused by DNA oxidation under conditions of daily stresses .
Promoter binding assay was performed by chromatin immunoprecipitation ( ChIP ) assay .
Q - RT - PCR was a useful method to detect the mRNA levels of nm23 gene in buccal carcinoma .
TEMF treatment continued for 3 additional weeks .
Targeted antibody - based therapy has been used successfully to treat cancers .
A novel putative tyrosine kinase receptor with oncogenic potential .
Effect of thalidomide affecting VEGF secretion , cell migration , adhesion and capillary tube formation of human endothelial EA . hy 926 cells .
Histological venous invasion ( p less than 0 . 01 ) and distant metastasis ( p less than 0 . 05 ) were significantly correlated with p53 protein expression .
Moreover , computed tomography ( CT ) showed a complete regression of the extensive lymph node and diffuse lung metastases , for a complete response ( CR ) .
Together , the results of this study identify molecular mechanisms that initiate hemangiosarcoma , a key step in understanding safety concerns that can impact drug decision processes , and identified hypoxia as a possible contributing factor for 2 - BE - induced hemangiosarcoma in mice .
Inhibition of this pathway may provide clinical benefits to cancer patients .
The alpha2beta1 integrin receptor plays a key role in angiogenesis .
At week 4 , however , the sinusoidal blood volume and albumin Disse space in tumor - bearing livers were slightly lower compared with those of shams .
New functions of epidermal growth factor : stimulation of capillary endothelial cell migration and matrix dependent proliferation .
We further show that in extracts from caspase - 3 - deficient MCF - 7 cells , procaspase - 9 processing is strongly impaired after stimulation with either cytochrome c or recombinant caspase - 8 .
Differential proteomic analysis of human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line metastasis - associated proteins .
In comparison , by day 24 , the majority of groups also treated with prednisolone displayed significantly less corneal clouding and neovascularization .
The beneficial effect of IL - 1Ra on most islet endothelial / OS / immune cells / fibrosis parameters analyzed highlights a major endothelial - related role for IL - 1 in GK islet alterations .
Here we show that expression of TEL in Ras - transformed NIH 3T3 cells inhibits cell growth in soft agar and in normal cultures .
The antiproliferative effect of HAH - cortisol on endothelial cells appeared independent of the glucocorticoid activity of the steroid since HAH conjugated to 5 beta - pregnane - 3 alpha , 17 alpha , 21 - triol - 20 - one , a steroid lacking glucocorticoid or mineralocorticoid activity , was even more effective at inhibiting DNA synthesis by murine pulmonary capillary endothelial cells than was HAH - cortisol .
Prospective and retrospective case - controlled experimental designs are not suitable for testing the above hypothesis .
Cooperative activation of Meis1 and Hoxa9 perturbs myeloid differentiation and eventually leads myeloid progenitors to leukemia , yet it remains to be clarified what kinds of subsequent molecular processes are required for development of overt leukemia .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , a recently identified growth factor with significant angiogenic properties , may be a major tumor angiogenesis regulator .
Prognostic value of angiogenesis in operable non - small cell lung cancer .
These observations support that the activation of multiple signals could enhance apoptotic response and suggest the therapeutic interest of the TRAIL / camptothecin combination .
The angiopoietin / Tie2 system has been identified as the second vascular - specific receptor tyrosine kinase system controlling vessel assembly , maturation , and quiescence .
TRAP - activated platelets stimulated a dose - dependent increase in SKOV3 cell invasion .
Moreover , HMGA2 knockdown by short hairpin HMGA2 in HepG2 cells leads to progressive telomere shortening and a concurrent decrease of steady - state hTERT mRNA levels , attenuating their ability to form colonies in soft agar .
However , additional transfection of TrkA into SY5Y - p75 cells resulted in a significantly reduced rate of apoptosis even in the absence of NGF .
Here , we have tested endocytic Rab GTPases for regulation of VEGFR2 trafficking and signaling linked to endothelial cell migration .
Through this domain , Evi - 1 physically interacts with Smad3 , an intracellular mediator of TGF - beta signaling , thereby suppressing the transcriptional activity of Smad3 .
Many cellular and biochemical effects of curcumin in mouse fibroblast cells have been reported , such as inhibition of protein kinase C ( PKC ) activity induced by phorbol 12 - myristate 13 - acetate treatment , inhibition of tyrosine protein kinase activity , and inhibition of arachidonic acid ( AA ) metabolism .
MDA - MB - 231 cells alone or breast cancer samples did not express RANKL mRNA .
The authors studied insulin effects on tumor and skeletal muscle metabolism with 2 - [ 18F ] - fluoro - 2 - deoxy - D - glucose ( [ 18F ] FDG ) and positron emission tomography ( PET ) .
DNA damage , rearrangement , and mutation of the human genome are the basis of carcinogenesis and thought to be avoided at all costs .
Enhancement of docetaxel - induced cytotoxicity and apoptosis by all - trans retinoic acid ( ATRA ) through downregulation of survivin ( BIRC5 ) , MCL - 1 and LTbeta - R in hormone - and drug resistant prostate cancer cell line , DU - 145 .
Here we show that transcription of the p53 gene is induced by IFN - alpha / beta , accompanied by an increase in p53 protein level .
Interestingly , significant associations were found between CYR61 expression versus tumor grade , pathology , gender , and age at diagnosis .
The ability of CLA to inhibit angiogenesis may contribute to its efficacy as a chemopreventive agent .
Our aim was to compare the angiogenesis associated with subcutaneous adipose tissue ( SAT ) and visceral adipose tissue ( VAT ) from the same obese patients in an in vivo model .
They also antagonised the effects of both thrombin and SFLLR on MMP - 2 activation .
Functional studies showed that Sema7A stimulates cytoskeletal reorganization in human melanocytes , resulting in adhesion and dendrite formation .
This correlation was due to a higher number of blood vessels rather than to a larger size of the blood vessels .
To this end , two candidate anti - angiogenic RNA - damaging agents , onconase and ( - 4 ) rhEDN , were screened for their effects on endothelial cell proliferation using three distinct types of endothelial cells in culture : HPV - 16 E6 / E7 - immortalized human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) , a Kras - transformed HPV - 16 E6 / E7 HUVEC ( Rhim et al . , Carcinogenesis 4 , 673 - 681 , 1998 ) , and primary HUVECs .
Levels of uPA , urokinase - plasminogen activator receptor ( uPAR ) and plasminogen activator inhibitor - 1 ( PAI - 1 ) were measured semiquantitatively in paraffin sections of tumours from 147 patients with NSCLC .
Moreover , in advanced TNM stages , cases without metastasis had higher KISS1 gene expression compared to those with lymph node metastasis ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
We therefore hypothesized that ANG II could be a mediator between homeostatic changes within the vascular perfusion bed and growth factor - driven angiogenesis .
Furthermore , p53 overexpression by tumors was almost twice as common in the RSCM group as in the RSCB group .
To the best of our knowledge , this is the first report to show that UV - B can increase the aggressiveness of human cutaneous melanoma for growth and metastasis .
Organic peroxides , widely used in the chemical and pharmaceutical industries , can act as skin tumor promoters and cause epidermal hyperplasia .
Activation of Ca2 + entry is known to produce endothelial cell shape change , leading to increased permeability , leukocyte migration , and initiation of angiogenesis in conduit - vessel endothelial cells .
Furthermore , thrombin increases the secretion of VEGF and enhances the expression and protein synthesis of matrix metalloprotease - 9 and alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) integrin in human prostate cancer PC - 3 cells .
The long latency of prostate cancer development provides an opportunity to intervene with agents of known mechanisms at various stages of disease progression .
Role of thrombin in angiogenesis and tumor progression .
In this review focus will be on OPN in bone and its role in adhesion , migration and cell survival .
Adenovirus - mediated p53 gene transfer is ineffective in causing apoptosis in glioma cells that retain wild - type p53 genotype or overexpress the p21 protein .
Potentiation of camptothecin - induced apoptosis by TRAIL appears dependent on cooperation between extrinsic and intrinsic pathways , as documented by loss of the sensitization to apoptosis following reduction of caspase 8 after small interfering RNA transfection .
But little is known about the characteristics of young donor - derived MSCs transplanted to old patients with AMI .
Neurosensorial retinal detachment decreased in 80 % of cases .
In all cases , the somatostatin receptors were localized in veins , particularly in the smooth - muscle cell layer .
Simultaneously , MMP - 2 expression increases with malignancy .
Inhibition of Akt , however , does not fully attenuate p - XSC - mediated downregulation of AR activity , suggesting that inhibition of AR signaling by p - XSC does not occur solely through alterations in the phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase / Akt survival pathway .
The mammalian proto - oncogene Cbl and its cellular homologues in Caenorhabditis elegans ( Sli - 1 ) and Drosophila ( D - Cbl ) are negative regulators of some growth factor receptor signaling pathways .
Bone marrow - derived mesenchymal stem cells ( BM - MSC ) have been demonstrated to be an attractive therapeutic cell source for tissue regeneration and repair .
The marked induction of angiogenesis in glioblastomas suggests that it is a necessary part of malignant progression ; however , the precise molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of brain tumour growth and angiogenesis remain unresolved .
The nm23 gene is a conspicuous metastasis - suppressor gene .
IUGR fetuses are both hypoxic and hypoglycaemic , and have reduced insulin and insulin - like growth factor - 1 ( IGF - 1 ) , and elevated concentrations of lactate .
TGF alpha was studied with the appropriate antibody .
Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) is strongly associated with the development of HCC in people chronically infected with the virus , but the mechanism of viral involvement remains unclear .
However , as only a fraction of cells in advanced Kaposi ' s sarcoma lesions express vGPCR , it is unclear whether this unique viral oncogene contributes to Kaposi ' s sarcoma progression .
Angiogenesis is induced by soluble factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) released from tumor cells in hypoxia .
After confirmation by immunocytochemical staining , their expression in patient samples was measured using 40 pairs of undifferentiated NPCs together with their adjacent normal epithelia .
[ ( 18 ) F ] deoxyglucose uptake correlates with glucose transporter ( GLUT - 1 ) expression , which can be regulated by hypoxia - inducible factor 1 alpha ( HIF - 1alpha ) .
The existence of proteins encoded by the 3 ' region has been postulated on the basis of multiple open reading frames .
There is accumulating evidence of a role for IGF - 1 in multiple vascular pathologies , including atherosclerosis , hypertension , restenosis , angiogenesis , and diabetic vascular disease .
CONCLUSIONS : These results suggest that the anti - angiogenic effects of U - 995 may be be due to interference with the proliferation and migration of HUVECs as well as inhibition of collagenolysis , thereby leading to inhibition of both angiogenesis and tumor cell growth .
Mechanistically , it reduced expression of molecular markers of cell proliferation ( Ki67 ) and angiogenesis ( factor VIII ) , antiapoptotic factor Bcl - 2 , cell - cycle progression regulator cyclin D1 , and survival factor AKT1 .
The scope of the present review is to discuss from a clinical point of view the potential interactions between VEGF and angiopoietins in the asthmatic airways , and focus on the therapeutic implications targeting for these angiogenic factors .
In MatrigelTM invasion assays , all subclones , which secreted enzymatically active ATX , demonstrated greater spontaneous and ATX - stimulated invasion than appropriate controls .
It was suggested that UFT has a stronger angiogenesis - inhibitory effect than did other fluorinated pyrimidines , partly due to its pharmacokinetic properties characterized by maintaining of higher and long - lasting blood levels of 5 - FU and partly due the inhibitory effects derived from gamma - hydroxybutyric acid and gamma - butyrolactone , UFT - specific metabolites .
The results showed that the expression of full - length T antigen rendered rat embryo fibroblasts ( REF ) sensitive to 5 - FU - induced apoptosis .
Recently , we reported candidate target genes of Evi - 1 shared in HSCs and leukemic cells using gene expression profiling analysis .
The IGF - 1 gene was transfected into male SMCs and compared with SMCs transfected with a plasmid vector ( vector control ) and nontransfected SMCs ( cell control ) .
DAPT delivery from the hydrogels also did not lead to any adverse side effects , in contrast to systemic introduction of DAPT .
The safety of verteporfin is directly dependent upon the appropriate integration of dosage , infusion and light activation required for a suitable pharmacotherapeutic outcome .
Melissoidesin G ( MOG ) is a new diterpenoid purified from Isodon melissoides , a plant used in Chinese traditional medicine as antitumor and anti - inflammatory agents .
Also , the combination of docetaxel and ATRA might allow a reduction in docetaxel doses and by this way may diminish docetaxel adverse effects while maintaining the therapeutic effect in patients with HRPC .
FAS - 1377 G / A polymorphism and the risk of lymph node metastasis in cervical cancer .
Here , we investigated whether angiogenesis and tumor metastasis are dependent on hypoxia conditioning - induced TB4 expression in B16F10 melanoma cells .
The EGFR - GEP100 - Arf6 - AMAP1 signaling pathway specific to breast cancer invasion and metastasis .
Finally , annexin II down - regulation was positively associated with lymph node metastasis , suggesting that it may be a prognostic factor in NPC .
A transgenic double - reporter strategy allowed us to demonstrate definitively that tumor bone marrow - derived endothelial cells arise by transdifferentiation of marrow progenitors rather than by cell fusion .
The finding of retinal vasculopathy ( 32 patients in group 1 and two patients in group 2 ) was directly correlated with the presence of choroidal neovascularizations ( P = 0 . 002 ) .
Also , the grafts maintain a constant volume between 3 and 8 weeks , thereby indicating that primary skin fibroblasts do not produce tumors .
It activated multicaspases , and increased the activities of caspase - 8 and caspase - 9 in both MG - 63 and SaOS - 2 cells .
These results indicate that the interaction of tumor cells and endothelial cells in orderly tumor angiomorphogenesis is highly dependent on the action of cell adhesion molecules mediating the adhesion of cancer cells to endothelial cells , inhibition of which remarkably retards tumor growth and angiogenesis .
In 3 days , 1 week , 2 weeks , 3 weeks and 4 weeks after surgery , the MVD of test group was significantly higher than that of control group .
In both cases , regulation of syndecan - 1 occurred post - transcriptionally , since syndecan - 1 mRNA levels remained unchanged .
TS expression of the primary oral cancer cells in the group with lymph node metastasis was higher than that of those without .
ECs on 15 - microm wide strips had highest speed , particularly in the direction of the strip .
Caffeine inhibits adenosine - induced accumulation of hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha , vascular endothelial growth factor , and interleukin - 8 expression in hypoxic human colon cancer cells .
BACKGROUND : The effects of a rectified semi - sinewave signal ( 15 mT amplitude , 120 pulses per second , EMF Therapeutics , Inc . ) ( TEMF ) alone and in combination with gamma irradiation ( IR ) therapy in nude mice bearing a human MDA MB231 breast cancer xenograft were tested .
In control group , there was no vascular bundle implantation .
When transplanted in nude mice , tumors formed by the v - Src transformed SWAP - 70 ( - / - ) MEFs were smaller than those formed by cells expressing exogenous SWAP - 70 .
These complexes are formed on the surface of EC and in a juxtacrine manner via association of tumor cell NRP1 and EC KDR .
The host and tumor sensitivities to insulin are critical for such treatments , which aim to improve patient nutrition .
We report a novel strategy to engineer and express stable and soluble human recombinant polyvalent / polyspecific fusion proteins .
This study indicated that urine IL - 8 / Cr levels might be useful as a diagnostic marker of NHL .
Such activity was abolished in mechanically stimulated mouse MRTF - A ( - / - ) cells or upon inhibition of CREB - binding protein ( CBP ) histone acetyltransferase ( HAT ) either pharmacologically or by siRNAs .
This metastatic ability was enhanced remarkably after in vivo tumor growth ( subcutaneous tumor formation in nude mice ) accompanied by increased mRNA expression and gene amplification of the human - derived K - ras oncogene , while it declined gradually as the passage number increased in vitro , with corresponding decreases of gene amplification and mRNA expression .
Our group seeks to determine the basic mechanisms underlying ES wound therapy , an area where understanding is currently limited .
In the HT29 tumor model , treatment response to vandetanib ( 50 mg / kg / day , Monday - Friday for 2 weeks ) was greatest in xenografts derived from the highest VEGF - expressing cell clones .
Pouch vascular volume and permeability changes were studied by fractional distributions of radiotracers and were analyzed by a variety of statistical methods which explored the vascular parameters , treatment types , elapsed time , presence of the carcinogen , and histopathologic changes .
RESULTS : Aflibercept was shown to have early clinical activity .
CONCLUSIONS : We reported here for the first time the involvement of PTEN promoter methylation in CCMs , particularly in familial CCMs , suggesting this epigenetic alteration as a potential pathomechanism of CCMs .
These events are associated with a short survival and support the concept of a cooperative effect of BCR - ABL with molecular RUNX1 abnormalities on the differentiation arrest phenotype observed during progression of CML and in BCR - ABL + ALL .
To grow , invade and metastasize , a treacherous society between cancer and host cells must be formed , and this association provides novel and effective clinical targets for cancer control and prevention .
In all cases , there was complete concordance between the effects of hypoxia and AdCA5 .
A third mutation involved a single base pair ( adenine ) deletion in codon 3 of H - ras which causes a frame shift , resulting in a termination signal at codon 19 .
The inhibition of migration by HKa is reversed by antibodies to urokinase - type plasminogen activator receptor .
Human LRP - 1 reversed the changes in protein expression associated with LRP - 1 deficiency ; however , the endocytic activity of LRP - 1 was not involved .
OBJECT : Endothelial proliferation has been recognized as a marker of high - grade or aggressive glioma .
Microscopic technique for the detection of nitric oxide - dependent angiogenesis in an animal model .
CONCLUSION : The Fas - FasL - mediated apoptosis pathway may contribute to the IL - 12 - induced rejection of prostate carcinoma .
Evaluation of VEGF expression level with the same tissues was used to establish the antigenic profiles , and the marker of CD34 staining was used as an indicator of microvessel density ( MVD ) .
[ Study of fungus polysaccharides compounds ( FPC ) in inducing the apoptosis of liver cancer cell Bel - 7402 ] .
OBJECTIVE : PTEN ( phosphatase and tensin homologue deleted on chromosome 10 ) is a tumor suppressor gene identified on human chromosome 10q23 .
None of the epithelial cell lines induced foci in a focus formation assay .
We have suggested that constitutive activation of this kinase is one mechanism by which oncogenes transform cells .
These data suggest that VEGF plays a role in the biology of CML and that VEGF inhibitors should be investigated in CML .
While the role of protein tyrosine kinases has been examined extensively in human breast tumorigenesis , the role of PTPases in this process is virtually unknown .
Long - term carcinogen exposure exerts continuous pressure on key mechanisms that repair or eliminate carcinogen - damaged cells giving rise to selective failures that contribute to lung cancer .
It is therefore highly likely that these alterations are an important component in tumor resistance to therapy .
