The TGF - beta type II receptor in chronic myeloid leukemia : analysis of microsatellite regions and gene expression .
Genomic instability is one mechanism proposed to play a role in the disease progression of chronic myeloid leukemia ( CML ) .
Microsatellite regions in the type II transforming growth factor - beta receptor ( TGF - beta RII ) gene appear to be targets for mutation in some cancers displaying microsatellite instability ( replication error phenotype , RER + ) .
Furthermore , TGF - beta RII mutations in RER + tumors have been associated with decreased TGF - beta RII mRNA levels .
As TGF - beta is a potent negative growth regulator of hematopoietic cells , investigations were undertaken to determine whether inactivation of the receptor by microsatellite alteration might be involved in the progression of CML .
Analysis of TGF - beta RII mRNA expression by RNase protection , with comparison of cells from the chronic , accelerated and blast phases of CML , showed no change in TGF - beta RII transcript levels during disease progression .
However , during each phase of the disease , low levels of TGF - beta RII were detected when compared with the hematopoietic cells of normal donors .
Furthermore , this decreased expression was also observed in the other myeloproliferative disorders , polycythemia rubra vera ( PRV ) and essential thrombocythemia ( ET ) .
The leukemia cell lines K562 and HL - 60 had no detectable TGF - beta RII mRNA .
Two microsatellite regions found altered in RER + colon cancers were analyzed to establish if these sequences were aberrant in CML .
No alteration was detected in either of these regions in any phase of the disease .
These results suggest that alterations of the microsatellite regions in the TGF - beta RII gene are not involved in the progression of CML .
Decreased expression of TGF - beta RII in CML cells and leukemia cell lines raises the possibility that altered expression of the receptor may play a role in the initiation and / or maintenance of the disease state .
N - glycosylation of glucose transporter - 1 ( Glut - 1 ) is associated with increased transporter affinity for glucose in human leukemic cells .
To elucidate the role of N - glycosylation in the functional activity of the universal glucose transporter , Glut - 1 , we investigated effects of the N - glycosylation inhibitor , tunicamycin , on glucose transport by human leukemic cell lines K562 , U937 and HL60 .
Treatment with tunicamycin produced a 40 - 50 % inhibition of 2 - deoxyglucose uptake and this was associated with a 2 - 2 . 5 - fold decrease in transporter affinity for glucose ( Km ) without a change in Vmax .
Leukemic K562 , U937 and HL60 cells expressed Glut - 1 transporter protein .
With K562 cells Glut - 1 appeared as a broad band of 50 - 60 kDa , whereas with U937 and HL60 cells a diffuse band was observed at approximately 55 kDa .
Treatment of K562 cells with tunicamycin for 18 h , resulted in extensive loss of the 50 - 60 kDa glycoprotein , appearance of a 30 - 40 kDa band and increased staining of a 45 kDa band .
With U937 cells , tunicamycin treatment resulted in the appearance of a 30 - 40 kDa band and increased staining of a 45 kDa band .
With HL60 cells loss of the 55 kDa Glut - 1 band was observed and a band of 45 kDa appeared .
Tunicamycin - treatment resulted in 75 - 90 % inhibition in [ 3H ] mannose incorporation but only 20 - 25 % inhibition in [ 3H ] thymidine and [ 3H ] leucine incorporation .
In contrast , tunicamycin had little effect on the viability and MTT responses of the cells used .
These results suggest that in leukemic cells N - glycosylation of Glut - 1 plays an important role in maintaining its structure and functional integration .
Immunohistochemical analysis of nm23 - H1 gene product in node - positive lung cancer and lymph nodes .
The nm23 - H1 gene product has been considered as an anti - metastatic protein and the level of its expression has been reported to correlate inversely with metastatic potential in some cancers .
However , the expression of nm23 - H1 gene product in the metastatic sites have not been studied in detail .
We examined the expression of nm23 - H1 gene product in surgically resected 46 pairs of primary lung cancers and metastatic lymph nodes by immunohistochemistry .
The positive staining of nm23 - H1 gene product in primary cancers and metastatic lymph nodes were observed in 56 . 5 and 67 . 4 % , respectively .
The heterogeneity of nm23 - H1 gene product expression between primary cancers and metastatic lymph nodes was observed in 41 . 3 % .
No correlations were found between the nm23 - H1 gene product expression in lung cancers and the patients survival .
No significant association was also observed between nm23 - H1 gene product expression in lymph nodes and the patients survival .
There was , furthermore , no correlation between the heterogeneity of nm23 - H1 gene product expression and the patients survival .
In conclusion , the level of nm23 - H1 gene product expression does not significantly reveal prognostic value in node - positive lung cancers .
Expression of nm23 - H1 gene product in metastatic lymph nodes was also unrelated to patients survival .
Bradycardia - induced coronary angiogenesis is dependent on vascular endothelial growth factor .
A marked coronary angiogenesis is known to occur with chronic bradycardia .
We tested the hypothesis that vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , an endothelial cell mitogen and a major regulator of angiogenesis , is upregulated in response to low heart rate and consequential increased stroke volume .
Bradycardia was induced in rats by administering the bradycardic drug alinidine ( 3 mg / kg body weight ) twice daily .
Heart rate decreased by 32 % for 20 to 40 minutes after injection and was chronically reduced by 10 % , 14 % , and 18 . 5 % after 1 , 2 , and 3 weeks of treatment , respectively .
Arterial pressure and cardiac output were unchanged .
Left ventricular capillary length density ( mm / mm ( 3 ) ) increased gradually with alinidine administration ; a 15 % increase after 2 weeks and a 40 % increase after 3 weeks of alinidine treatment were documented .
Left ventricular weight , body weight , and their ratio were not significantly altered by alinidine treatment .
After 1 week of treatment , before an increase in capillary length density , VEGF mRNA increased greater than 2 - fold and then declined to control levels after 3 weeks of treatment .
VEGF protein was higher in alinidine - treated rats than in controls after 2 weeks and increased further after 3 weeks of treatment .
Injection of VEGF - neutralizing antibodies over a 2 - week period completely blocked alinidine - stimulated angiogenesis .
In contrast , bFGF mRNA was not altered by alinidine treatment .
These data suggest that VEGF plays a key role in the angiogenic response that occurs with chronic bradycardia .
The mechanism underlying this VEGF - associated angiogenesis may be an increase in stretch due to enhanced diastolic filling .
External beam radiotherapy for subretinal neovascularization in age - related macular degeneration : is this treatment efficient ?
PURPOSE : Control of the natural course of subretinal neovascularization ( SRNV ) in age - related macular degeneration ( AMD ) is difficult .
Only a subset of patients is suitable for laser coagulation .
This prospective study aimed to determine the efficacy and individual benefit of external beam radiotherapy ( EBRT ) .
METHODS AND MATERIALS : The prospective trial included 287 patients with subfoveal neovascularization due to AMD which was verified by fluorescein angiography .
Patients have been treated between January 1996 and October 1997 .
All patients received a total dose of 16 Gy in 2 - Gy daily fractions with 5 - 6 MeV photons based on computerized treatment planning in individual head mask fixation .
This first analysis is based on 73 patients ( 50 women , 23 men , median age 74 . 3 years ) , with a median follow - up of 13 . 3 months and a minimum follow - up of 11 months .
RESULTS : All patients completed therapy and tolerability was good .
First clinical control with second angiography was performed 6 weeks after irradiation , then in 3 - month intervals .
Eighteen patients with SRNV refusing radiotherapy served as a control group and were matched with 18 irradiated patients .
After 7 months median visual acuity ( VA ) was 20 / 160 for the irradiated and 20 / 400 for the untreated patients .
One year after radiotherapy final median VA was 20 / 400 in both groups .
CONCLUSION : These results suggest that 16 Gy of conventionally fractionated external beam irradiation slows down the visual loss in exudative AMD for only a few months .
Patients ' reading vision could not be saved for a long - term run .
Increased serum levels of vascular endothelial growth factor in patients with renal cell carcinoma .
Neovascularization , an essential event for the growth of solid tumors , is regulated by a number of angiogenic factors .
One such factor , vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , is considered to exert a potent angiogenic activity , as indicated by immunohistochemical and molecular evidence .
In this study we investigated the serum VEGF level ( s - VEGF ) in patients with renal cell carcinoma ( RCC ) .
s - VEGF in peripheral blood samples was analyzed in 40 RCC patients and 40 patients without cancer ( controls ) using a sandwich enzyme - linked immunoassay .
In 20 RCC patients , serum samples were obtained separately from the bilateral renal veins .
s - VEGF was also measured before , 4 and 8 weeks after nephrectomy in 11 patients .
There were significant differences in s - VEGF between the RCC patients and the controls ( 207 . 3 + / - 32 . 9 vs . 71 . 5 + / - 9 . 1 pg / ml , mean + / - SE ) ( P less than 0 . 005 ) , between the tumor - bearing renal veins and the contralateral ones ( P less than 0 . 01 ) , between the pre - and post - nephrectomy situations ( P less than 0 . 01 ) and among the various parameters of tumor status such as tumor extent ( P less than 0 . 001 ) and existence of metastasis ( P less than 0 . 001 ) .
s - VEGF significantly correlated with the tumor volume obtained by a three - dimensional measurement ( r = 0 . 802 , P less than 0 . 0001 ) .
The sensitivity and specificity of s - VEGF at the cut - off level of 100 pg / ml , as determined by the receiver - operating - characteristics curve , were 80 . 0 % and 72 . 5 % , respectively .
The results indicate that tumor tissue of RCC liberates VEGF into the systemic blood flow and that s - VEGF is a possible marker for RCC .
Insulin - induced vascular endothelial growth factor expression in retina .
PURPOSE : Clinical studies have demonstrated that intensive insulin therapy causes a transient worsening of retinopathy .
The mechanisms underlying the initial insulin - induced deterioration of retinal status in patients with diabetes remain unknown .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is known to be operative in the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy .
The current study was conducted to characterize the effect of insulin on retinal VEGF gene expression in vitro and in vivo .
METHODS : The effect of insulin on VEGF expression in vivo was examined by in situ hybridization studies of rat retinal VEGF transcripts .
To examine the mechanisms by which insulin regulates VEGF expression , human retinal pigment epithelial ( RPE ) cells were exposed to insulin , and VEGF mRNA levels were quantified with RNase protection assays ( RPAs ) .
Conditioned media from insulin - treated RPE cells were assayed for VEGF protein and capillary endothelial cell proliferation .
The capacity of insulin to stimulate the VEGF promoter linked to a luciferase reporter gene was characterized in transient transfection assays .
RESULTS : Insulin increased VEGF mRNA levels in the ganglion , inner nuclear , and RPE cell layers .
In vitro , insulin increased VEGF mRNA levels in human RPE cells and enhanced VEGF promoter activity without affecting transcript stability .
Insulin treatment also increased VEGF protein levels in conditioned RPE cell media in a dose - dependent manner with a median effective concentration of 5 nM .
The insulin - conditioned RPE cell media stimulated capillary endothelial cell proliferation , an effect that was completely blocked by anti - VEGF neutralizing antibody .
CONCLUSIONS : Insulin increases VEGF mRNA and secreted protein levels in RPE cells through enhanced transcription of the VEGF gene .
Intensive insulin therapy may cause a transient worsening of retinopathy in patients with diabetes through increased retinal VEGF gene expression .
The antiangiogenic agent linomide inhibits the growth rate of von Hippel - Lindau paraganglioma xenografts to mice .
The aim of this study was to ascertain the potential usefulness of the antiangiogenic compound linomide for treatment of von Hippel - Lindau ( VHL ) - related tumors .
Both groups received either 0 . 5 mg / ml linomide in drinking water or acidified water and were followed until tumor diameter reached 3 cm or for 4 weeks .
In both the prevention and intervention experiments , a significant diminution of tumor size and weight was observed in the drug - treated animals .
In vivo nuclear magnetic resonance analysis of tumor blood flow in linomide - treated animals showed localization of blood vessels almost exclusively to the periphery of the poorly vascularized tumors with a significant reduction of both vascular functionality and vasodilation .
Histological examination of tumors from linomide - treated animals revealed marked avascularity .
Treated animals also displayed a 2 . 4 - fold reduction of tumor vascular endothelial growth factor mRNA levels .
Taken together , our data indicate that in VHL disease , therapy directed at inhibition of constitutively expressed VEGF induction of angiogenesis by VHL tumors may constitute an effective medical treatment .
LMP1 of Epstein - Barr virus induces proliferation of primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts and cooperatively transforms the cells with a p16 - insensitive CDK4 oncogene .
The latent membrane protein LMP1 of Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) is often present in EBV - associated malignancies including nasopharyngeal carcinoma and Hodgkin ' s lymphoma .
Previous work demonstrates that the LMP1 gene of EBV is sufficient to transform certain established rodent fibroblast cell lines and to induce the tumorigenicity of some human epithelial cell lines .
In addition , LMP1 plays pleiotropic roles in cell growth arrest , differentiation , and apoptosis , depending on the background of the target cells .
To examine the roles of LMP1 in cell proliferation and growth regulation in primary culture cells , we constructed a recombinant retrovirus containing an LMP1 gene .
With this retrovirus , LMP1 was shown to stimulate the proliferation of primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts ( MEF cells ) .
It has a mitogenic activity for MEF cells , as demonstrated by an immediate induction of cell doubling time .
In addition , it significantly extends the passage number of MEF cells to more than 30 after retroviral infection , compared with less than 5 for uninfected MEF cells .
Furthermore , LMP1 cooperates with a p16 - insensitive CDK4 ( R24C ) oncogene in transforming MEF cells .
Our results provide the first evidence of the abilities of the LMP1 gene , acting alone , to effectively induce the proliferation of primary MEF cells and of its cooperativity with another cellular oncogene in transforming primary cells .
Autotaxin ( ATX ) , a potent tumor motogen , augments invasive and metastatic potential of ras - transformed cells .
Autotaxin ( ATX ) , an exo - nucleotide pyrophosphatase and phosphodiesterase , was originally isolated as a potent stimulator of tumor cell motility .
In order to study whether ATX expression affects motility - dependent processes such as invasion and metastasis , we stably transfected full - length ATX cDNA into two non - expressing cell lines , parental and ras - transformed NIH3T3 ( clone7 ) cells .
The effect of ATX secretion on in vitro cell motility was variable .
The ras - transformed , ATX - secreting subclones had enhanced motility to ATX as chemoattractant , but there was little difference in the motility responses of NIH3T3 cells transfected with atx , an inactive mutant gene , or empty vector .
In MatrigelTM invasion assays , all subclones , which secreted enzymatically active ATX , demonstrated greater spontaneous and ATX - stimulated invasion than appropriate controls .
This difference in invasiveness was not caused by differences in gelatinase production , which was constant within each group of transfectants .
In vivo studies with athymic nude mice demonstrated that injection of atx - transfected NIH3T3 cells resulted in a weak tumorigenic capacity with few experimental metastases .
Combination of ATX expression with ras transformation produced cells with greatly amplified tumorigenesis and metastatic potential compared to ras - transformed controls .
Thus , ATX appears to augment cellular characteristics necessary for tumor aggressiveness .
Oncogenic epidermal growth factor receptor mutants with tandem duplication : gene structure and effects on receptor function .
A number of epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) deletion mutants have been identified in gliomas , in which the EGFR gene is frequently amplified and rearranged .
We have previously characterized the structure of a gene in A - 172 human glioma cells that encodes a 190 - kDa EGFR mutant with tandem duplication of the tyrosine kinase ( TK ) and calcium - mediated internalization ( CAIN ) domains .
Here we describe a 185 - kDa tandem duplication mutant ( TDM ) that is expressed in KE and A - 1235 glioma cells , along with certain functional characteristics of the mutants .
The corresponding transcripts in KE and A - 1235 cells contain 1053 additional nucleotides representing an in - frame duplication of exons 18 through 25 which encode the entire TK region and a portion of the CAIN domain .
As with duplication of the entire TK / CAIN region ( exons 18 - 26 ) in A - 172 cells , duplication of exons 18 - 25 is associated with a specific genomic rearrangement between flanking introns .
Involved introns contain homology to recombination signal sequence ( RSS ) heptamers present in the V ( D ) J region of the T lymphocyte receptor gene .
In defined medium , both oncogenic TDM are constitutively autophosphorylated and inefficiently downregulated .
High - affinity binding is reduced in EGFR . TDM / 18 - 26 , although the t1 / 2 of receptor internalization is not prolonged .
Ciprofloxacin mediated cell growth inhibition , S / G2 - M cell cycle arrest , and apoptosis in a human transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder cell line .
The second most prevalent urological malignancy in middle aged and elderly men is bladder cancer , with 90 % of the cases being transitional cell carcinomas .
The success of current systemic and intravesical therapeutic agents , such as cisplatin , thiotepa , Adriamycin , mitomycin C , and bacillus Calmette - Guerin , is limited with recurrence rates reduced to 17 - 44 % .
In addition , most of these agents require instrumentation of the urinary tract and are delivered at a significant cost and potential morbidity to the patient .
Fluroquinolone antibiotics such as ciprofloxacin , which can be administered p . o . , may have a profound effect in bladder cancer management .
This is primarily based on limited in vitro studies on tumor cells derived from transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder that revealed a dose - and time - dependent inhibition of cell growth by ciprofloxacin at concentrations that are easily attainable in the urine of patients .
However , the mechanism ( s ) by which ciprofloxacin elicits its biological effects on bladder cancer cells is not well documented .
Our experimental data confirm previous studies showing the in vitro cell growth inhibition of the transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder cell line HTB9 and further showed the induction of cell cycle arrest at the S / G2 - M checkpoints .
In addition , we found down - regulation of cyclin B , cyclin E , and dephosphorylation of cdk2 in ciprofloxacin - treated bladder tumor cells .
There was also an up - regulation of Bax , which altered the Bax : Bcl - 2 ratio , which may be responsible for mitochondrial depolarization reported to be involved prior to the induction of apoptosis .
The cyclin - dependent kinase inhibitor p21WAF1 level was found to be decreased within 12 h of ciprofloxacin treatment and disappeared completely when HTB9 cells were treated with 200 microg / ml ciprofloxacin for 24 h .
The down - regulation of p21WAF1 closely correlated with poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase cleavage and CPP32 activation .
Recent studies revealed that p21WAF1 protects cells from apoptosis by arresting them in G1 and further binds to pro - caspase - 3 , preventing its activation and thus , inhibiting the apoptotic cascade .
Hence , the down - regulation of p21WAF1 , together with the alterations in Bax and cdk2 as observed in our studies , may define a novel mechanism by which ciprofloxacin inhibits tumor cell growth and induces apoptotic cell death .
The results of our current studies provide strong experimental evidence for the use of ciprofloxacin as a potential preventive and / or therapeutic agent for the management of transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder .
Vascular proliferation and enhanced expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase in human peritoneum exposed to long - term peritoneal dialysis .
Long - term peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) is associated with alterations in peritoneal permeability and loss of ultrafiltration .
These changes originate from increased peritoneal surface area , but the morphologic and molecular mechanisms involved remain unknown .
The hypothesis that modifications of activity and / or expression of nitric oxide synthase ( NOS ) isozymes might play a role in these modifications , via enhanced local production of nitric oxide , was tested in this study .
NOS activities were measured by the L - citrulline assay in peritoneal biopsies from seven control subjects , eight uremic patients immediately before the onset of PD , and 13 uremic patients on short - term ( less than 18 mo , n = 6 ) or long - term ( greater than 18 mo , n = 7 ) PD .
Peritoneal NOS activity is increased fivefold in long - term PD patients compared with control subjects .
In uremic patients , NOS activity is positively correlated with the duration of PD .
Increased NOS activity is mediated solely by Ca ( 2 + ) - dependent NOS and , as shown by immunoblotting , an upregulation of endothelial NOS .
The biologic relevance of increased NOS in long - term PD was demonstrated by enhanced nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity and a significant increase in vascular density and endothelial area in the peritoneum .
Immunoblotting and immunostaining studies demonstrated an upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) mostly along the endothelium lining peritoneal blood vessels in long - term PD patients .
In the latter , VEGF colocalized with the advanced glycation end product pentosidine deposits .
These data provide a morphologic ( angiogenesis and increased endothelial area ) and molecular ( enhanced NOS activity and endothelial NOS upregulation ) basis for explaining the permeability changes observed in long - term PD .
They also support the implication of local advanced glycation end product deposits and liberation of VEGF in that process .
Active hair growth ( anagen ) is associated with angiogenesis .
After the completion of skin development , angiogenesis , i . e . , the growth of new capillaries from pre - existing blood vessels , is held to occur in the skin only under pathologic conditions .
It has long been noted , however , that hair follicle cycling is associated with prominent changes in skin perfusion , that the epithelial hair bulbs of anagen follicles display angiogenic properties , and that the follicular dermal papilla can produce angiogenic factors .
Despite these suggestive observations , no formal proof is as yet available for the concept that angiogenesis is a physiologic event that occurs all over the mature mammalian integument whenever hair follicles switch from resting ( telogen ) to active growth ( anagen ) .
This study uses quantitative histomorphometry and double - immunohistologic detection techniques for the demarcation of proliferating endothelial cells , to show that synchronized hair follicle cycling in adolescent C57BL / 6 mice is associated with substantial angiogenesis , and that inhibiting angiogenesis in vivo by the intraperitoneal application of a fumagillin derivative retards experimentally induced anagen development in these mice .
Thus , angiogenesis is a physiologic event in normal postnatal murine skin , apparently is dictated by the hair follicle , and appears to be required for normal anagen development .
Anagen - associated angiogenesis offers an attractive model for identifying the physiologic controls of cutaneous angiogenesis , and an interesting system for screening the effects of potential antiangiogenic drugs in vivo .
Neuroblastoma and hepatocyte coculture conditioned media alter apoptosis .
BACKGROUND : Neuroblastoma is a childhood tumor that often displays unusual biological behavior .
The tumor may present with widespread metastases that are unresponsive to aggressive treatment .
At other times , both the metastases and the primary tumor may spontaneously regress without treatment .
Apoptosis , or programmed cell death , is thought to play a role in the dichotomous behavior of neuroblastoma .
We hypothesize that neuroblastoma cells will interact with host tissues to release mediators that affect apoptosis .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : Human neuroblastoma cells and human Chang hepatocytes are grown in a noncontact , coculture system .
After incubation for 4 days , the medium from the coculture system is collected .
Neuroblastoma cells and Chang hepatocytes are then plated separately with the conditioned medium and their own standard growth medium as controls .
After 4 days , these cells are harvested and cytospins made for immunostaining .
Tumor necrosis factor alpha ( TNF - alpha ) , Fas ligand , and Bcl - 2 , are measured with immunohistochemistry .
Apoptosis is detected with the TUNEL method .
Immunostaining data are interpreted with computer image analysis and reported as stain index .
TUNEL data are reported as percentage apoptotic cells .
All data are reported as means + / - SEM .
Statistical analysis is performed and P < 0 . 05 considered significant .
RESULTS : Chang hepatocytes grown in the coculture conditioned media have an increase in TNF - alpha and Fas ligand .
The neuroblastoma cells have a significant decrease in Fas ligand .
There is a significant increase in the number of apoptotic hepatocytes when they are cultured in the conditioned media .
In contrast , the neuroblastoma cells grown in the coculture conditioned media show no increase in apoptosis .
Finally , Bcl - 2 is significantly increased in the neuroblastoma cells cultured in the conditioned media .
CONCLUSIONS : Neuroblastoma cells grown in coculture conditioned media show increased expression of Bcl - 2 and decreased Fas ligand levels .
These changes should diminish apoptosis activity in the tumor cells .
In contrast , the conditioned media induce elevated levels of proapoptotic mediators in the Chang hepatocytes .
A tumor ' s ability to successfully metastasize may be dependent on mediators generated in the tumor - host interaction , and may not be just an independent characteristic of the tumor itself .
Neoplastic transformation by Notch requires nuclear localization .
Notch proteins are plasma membrane - spanning receptors that mediate important cell fate decisions such as differentiation , proliferation , and apoptosis .
The mechanism of Notch signaling remains poorly understood .
However , it is clear that the Notch signaling pathway mediates its effects through intercellular contact between neighboring cells .
The prevailing model for Notch signaling suggests that ligand , presented on a neighboring cell , triggers proteolytic processing of Notch .
Following proteolysis , it is thought that the intracellular portion of Notch ( N ( ic ) ) translocates to the nucleus , where it is involved in regulating gene expression .
There is considerable debate concerning where in the cell Notch functions and what proteins serve as effectors of the Notch signal .
Several Notch genes have clearly been shown to be proto - oncogenes in mammalian cells .
Activation of Notch proto - oncogenes has been associated with tumorigenesis in several human and other mammalian cancers .
Transforming alleles of Notch direct the expression of truncated proteins that primarily consist of N ( ic ) and are not tethered to the plasma membrane .
However , the mechanism by which Notch oncoproteins ( generically termed here as N ( ic ) ) induce neoplastic transformation is not known .
Previously we demonstrated that N1 ( ic ) and N2 ( ic ) could transform E1A immortalized baby rat kidney cells ( RKE ) in vitro .
We now report direct evidence that N1 ( ic ) must accumulate in the nucleus to induce transformation of RKE cells .
In addition , we define the minimal domain of N1 ( ic ) required to induce transformation and present evidence that transformation of RKE cells by N1 ( ic ) is likely to be through a CBF1 - independent pathway .
Alpha - melanocyte - stimulating hormone modulates activation of NF - kappa B and AP - 1 and secretion of interleukin - 8 in human dermal fibroblasts .
Alpha - melanocyte - stimulating hormone ( alpha - MSH ) has evolved as a mediator of diverse biological activities in an ever - growing number of non - melanocytic cell types .
One mechanism by which alpha - MSH exerts its effects is modulation of AP - 1 and NF - kappa B .
These two transcription factors also play an important role in fibroblasts , in extracellular matrix composition , and in cytokine expression .
By use of electric mobility shift assays , we demonstrate that alpha - MSH ( 10 ( - 6 ) to 10 ( - 14 ) M ) activates AP - 1 in human dermal fibroblasts , whereas coincubation with interleukin - 1 beta ( IL - 1 beta ) results in suppression of its activation .
alpha - MSH also induces activation of NF - kappa B but does not modulate DNA binding on costimulation with IL - 1 beta .
Since AP - 1 and NF - kappa B are key elements in controlling interleukin - 8 ( IL - 8 ) transcription , human fibroblasts were treated with alpha - MSH and IL - 1 beta for 24 hours , and cytokine levels in the supernatants were measured by ELISA .
alpha - MSH alone had little effect , whereas coincubation with IL - 1 beta led to marked downregulation of IL - 8 secretion ( at most 288 + / - 152 ng / mL ) when compared to treatment with IL - 1 beta alone ( 919 + / - 157 ng / mL ) .
Our results indicate that alpha - MSH exerts modulatory effects on the activation of NF - kappa B and AP - 1 , and that it can regulate chemokine secretion in human dermal fibroblasts .
These effects of alpha - MSH may have important regulatory functions in extracellular matrix composition , wound healing , or angiogenesis .
CD40 expression on human lung cancer correlates with metastatic spread .
PURPOSE : The poor prognosis associated with lung cancer is related to the high incidence of regional and distant metastasis .
There is a crucial need to identify parameters that can predict a tendancy to metastatic spread to allow better prognostic evaluation and therapeutic approach .
METHODS : Using flow cytometry we evaluated 18 human lung cancer cell lines for the expression of different surface markers on lung cancers suggested to be possible prognostic parameters , including epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) , intercellular adhesion molecule 1 ( ICAM - 1 ) , Fas and CD40 .
RESULTS : No correlation was found between tumor prognosis and EGFR , ICAM - 1 or Fas .
However , a statistically significant correlation was found between the surface expression of CD40 and the metastatic spread of the tumor .
In this study , 14 of 18 lung cancer cell lines ( 78 % ) expressed CD40 on their surface .
All of the 4 tumors that were CD40 - negative , were stage I tumors , without any evidence of regional or distant metastasis .
Of the 14 tumors that expressed CD40 , all but 1 ( 93 % ) had either nodal or systemic metastasis at the time of diagnosis .
Patients whose tumors were CD40 - negative showed a significantly better N stage , overall stage at presentation and survival than those patients with CD40 - positive patients .
No significant differences between the two groups were observed in tumor size , gender , age , histology , differentiation or preoperative therapy .
CONCLUSIONS : These results suggest that CD40 expression on lung cancer may play a role in metastatic spread , and also may serve as a prognostic marker and an indicator of advanced disease .
The value of serum S - 100beta and interleukins as tumour markers in advanced melanoma .
Recently serum S - 100beta has shown promise as a tumour marker in melanoma ; however , its use as a prognostic marker in the advanced stage needs to be confirmed .
Interleukins ( ILs ) may mediate regression or progression of cancer .
In order to study their relation to the metastatic profile and survival , we evaluated the association between pretreatment serum levels of S - 100beta , IL - 6 , IL - 10 and IL - 12 and metastatic site and survival in 50 patients with advanced melanoma who were to receive chemoimmunotherapy .
Patients with liver and / or bone metastases had significantly higher median concentrations of S - 100beta , IL - 6 and IL - 10 than those with only skin , nodal and / or lung involvement .
The differences in IL - 12 levels were unremarkable .
Using univariate analysis , the S - 100beta level and metastatic profile were found to be statistically significant prognostic factors for survival .
Using multivariate analysis the S - 100beta level was the most powerful prognostic indicator , while the metastatic profile was found to be significant after exclusion of S - 100beta .
The findings suggest that elevated serum levels of S - 100beta , IL - 6 and IL - 10 reflect concurrent liver or bone metastases in melanoma .
S - 100beta is also an independent prognostic marker .
Pretreatment IL levels were not associated with outcome .
TEL , a putative tumor suppressor , modulates cell growth and cell morphology of ras - transformed cells while repressing the transcription of stromelysin - 1 .
TEL is a member of the ETS family of transcription factors that interacts with the mSin3 and SMRT corepressors to regulate transcription .
TEL is biallelically disrupted in acute leukemia , and loss of heterozygosity at the TEL locus has been observed in various cancers .
Here we show that expression of TEL in Ras - transformed NIH 3T3 cells inhibits cell growth in soft agar and in normal cultures .
Unexpectedly , cells expressing both Ras and TEL grew as aggregates .
To begin to explain the morphology of Ras - plus TEL - expressing cells , we demonstrated that the endogenous matrix metalloproteinase stromelysin - 1 was repressed by TEL .
TEL bound sequences in the stromelysin - 1 promoter and repressed the promoter in transient - expression assays , suggesting that it is a direct target for TEL - mediated regulation .
Mutants of TEL that removed a binding site for the mSin3A corepressor but retained the ETS domain failed to repress stromelysin - 1 .
When BB - 94 , a matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor , was added to the culture medium of Ras - expressing cells , it caused a cell aggregation phenotype similar to that caused by TEL expression .
In addition , TEL inhibited the invasiveness of Ras - transformed cells in vitro and in vivo .
Our results suggest that TEL acts as a tumor suppressor , in part , by transcriptional repression of stromelysin - 1 .
Caspase - 3 is essential for procaspase - 9 processing and cisplatin - induced apoptosis of MCF - 7 breast cancer cells .
In this study , we sought to investigate in more detail the role of caspase - 3 in apoptotic processes in cultured cells and in cell - free extracts of breast cancer cells .
We present evidence that apoptosis of caspase - 3 - deficient MCF - 7 breast cancer cells is defective in response to cisplatin treatment , as determined by chromatin condensation , nuclear fragmentation , DNA fragmentation , and release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria .
Reconstitution of MCF - 7 cells by stable transfection of CASP - 3 cDNA restores all these defects and results in an extensive apoptosis after cisplatin treatment .
We further show that in extracts from caspase - 3 - deficient MCF - 7 cells , procaspase - 9 processing is strongly impaired after stimulation with either cytochrome c or recombinant caspase - 8 .
Reconstitution of MCF - 7 cell extracts with procaspase - 3 corrects this defect , resulting in an efficient and complete processing of procaspase - 9 .
Together , our data define caspase - 3 as an important integrator of the apoptotic process in MCF - 7 breast cancer cells and reveal an essential function of caspase - 3 for procaspase - 9 processing .
Vasodilator - stimulated phosphoprotein is involved in stress - fiber and membrane ruffle formation in endothelial cells .
Vasodilator - stimulated phosphoprotein ( VASP ) is highly expressed in vascular endothelial cells , where it has been implicated in cellular reorganization during angiogenesis , as well as in endothelial retraction and changes in vessel permeability .
However , the cellular functions of VASP are not known .
In this study , we have expressed wild - type and mutant forms of VASP in endothelial cells to determine in what aspects of cytoskeletal behavior this protein participates .
Expression of wild - type VASP induces marked membrane ruffling and formation of prominent stress fibers in bovine aortic endothelial cells .
Deletion of the proline - rich domain of VASP abolishes its ability to bind profilin but does not affect ruffling or stress fiber formation .
Further deletions reveal a sequence within the carboxy - terminal domain that is responsible for in vivo bundle formation .
Ruffling occurs only on the expression of forms of VASP that possess bundling activity and the capacity to bind zyxin / vinculin - derived peptide .
The ability of distinct subdomains within VASP to bind adhesion proteins and induce F - actin bundling in vivo suggests that this protein could function in the aggregation and tethering of actin filaments during the formation of endothelial cell - substrate and cell - cell contacts .
These data provide a mechanism whereby VASP can influence endothelial migration and organization during capillary formation and modulate vascular permeability via effects on endothelial cell contractility .
Urokinase receptor : a molecular organizer in cellular communication .
In a variety of cell types , the glycolipid - anchored urokinase receptor ( uPAR ) is colocalized pericellularly with components of the plasminogen activation system and endocytosis receptors .
uPAR is also coexpressed with caveolin and members of the integrin adhesion receptor superfamily .
The formation of functional units with these various proteins allows the uPAR to mediate the focused proteolysis required for cell migration and invasion and to contribute both directly and indirectly to cell adhesive processes in a non - proteolytic fashion .
This dual activity , together with the initiation of signal transduction pathways by uPAR , is believed to influence cellular behaviour in angiogenesis , inflammation , wound repair and tumor progression / metastasis and open up the way for uPAR - based therapeutic approaches .
p75 mediated apoptosis in neuroblastoma cells is inhibited by expression of TrkA .
BACKGROUND : Neurotrophins mediate their effects by binding to members of the Trk family of receptor tyrosine kinases and to the low - affinity nerve growth factor receptor p75 .
Nerve growth factor ( NGF ) has been demonstrated to support survival and differentiation of neuroblastoma ( NB ) cells by activation of the TrkA receptor .
The p75 receptor belongs to the tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) family of death receptors and has been suggested as a receptor that mediates apoptosis in neuronal and NB cells .
PROCEDURE : To investigate the effect of p75 expression in NB , we transfected the p75 cDNA into SH - SY5Y cells , an NB cell line lacking expression of both p75 and TrkA .
RESULTS : Cell clones expressing elevated levels of p75 showed a high degree of apoptosis even in 10 % serum - supplemented medium .
Apoptotic signaling by p75 was ligand - independent and only partly caspase - dependent .
The level of apoptosis correlated directly with the expression level of the receptor , indicating that p75 may activate the cell death program directly .
However , additional transfection of TrkA into SY5Y - p75 cells resulted in a significantly reduced rate of apoptosis even in the absence of NGF .
CONCLUSIONS : Thus , expression of the TrkA receptor itself inhibits p75 mediated apoptosis in NB cells .
RNA damage and inhibition of neoplastic endothelial cell growth : effects of human and amphibian ribonucleases .
Angiogenesis defines the many steps involved in the growth and migration of endothelial cell - derived blood vessels .
This process is necessary for the growth and metastasis of tumors , and considerable effort is being expended to find inhibitors of tumor angiogenesis .
This usually involves screening of potential anti - angiogenic compounds on endothelial cells .
To this end , two candidate anti - angiogenic RNA - damaging agents , onconase and ( - 4 ) rhEDN , were screened for their effects on endothelial cell proliferation using three distinct types of endothelial cells in culture : HPV - 16 E6 / E7 - immortalized human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) , a Kras - transformed HPV - 16 E6 / E7 HUVEC ( Rhim et al . , Carcinogenesis 4 , 673 - 681 , 1998 ) , and primary HUVECs .
Onconase similarly inhibited proliferation in all three cell lines ( IC ( 50 ) = 0 . 3 - 1 . 0 microM ) while ( - 4 ) rhEDN was more effective on immortalized HUVEC cell lines ( IC ( 50 ) = 0 . 02 - 0 . 06 microM ) than on primary HUVECs ( IC ( 50 ) > 0 . 1 microM ) .
Differential sensitivity to these agents implies that more than one endothelial cell type must be used in proliferation assays to screen for novel anti - angiogenic compounds .
TRADD domain of Epstein - Barr virus transforming protein LMP1 is essential for inducing immortalization and suppressing senescence of primary rodent fibroblasts .
Mutation analysis of latent membrane protein 1 ( LMP1 ) in Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) - induced B - cell immortalization revealed two transformation effector sites , TES1 and TES2 .
TES2 mediates the interaction with tumor necrosis factor receptor - associated death domain protein ( TRADD ) and plays a key role in transactivating NF - kappa B and AP - 1 .
Recombinant EBV containing LMP1 with TES2 deleted induces a limited proliferation of B cells .
The present study shows that a mutant with an LMP1 site - specific mutation at TES2 , LMP1 ( TRADD ) , initially stimulates cell growth and significantly extends the life span of MEF .
However , it is not sufficient for the immortalization of MEF , and MEF - LMP1 ( TRADD ) cells eventually enter growth arrest .
Further analysis reveals that although LMP1 ( TRADD ) promotes cell growth , it does not prevent the eventual onset of senescence and the expression of tumor suppressor p16 ( Ink4a ) .
IL - 12 inhibition of endothelial cell functions and angiogenesis depends on lymphocyte - endothelial cell cross - talk .
In vivo IL - 12 - dependent tumor inhibition rests on the ability of IL - 12 to activate a CD8 - mediated cytotoxicity , inhibit angiogenesis , and cause vascular injury .
Although in vivo studies have shown that such inhibition stems from complex interactions of immune cells and the production of IFN - gamma and other downstream angiostatic chemokines , the mechanisms involved are still poorly defined .
Here we show that IL - 12 activates an anti - angiogenic program in Con A - activated mouse spleen cells ( activated spc ) or human PBMC ( activated PBMC ) .
The soluble factors they release in its presence arrest the cycle of endothelial cells ( EC ) , inhibit in vitro angiogenesis , negatively modulate the production of matrix metalloproteinase - 9 , and the ability of EC to adhere to vitronectin and up - regulate ICAM - 1 and VCAM - 1 expression .
These effects do not require direct cell - cell contact , yet result from continuous interaction between activated lymphoid cells and EC .
We used neutralizing Abs to show that the IFN - inducible protein - 10 and monokine - induced by IFN - gamma chemokines are pivotal in inducing these effects .
Experiments with nu / nu mice , nonobese diabetic - SCID mice , or activated spc enriched in specific cell subpopulations demonstrated that CD4 ( + ) , CD8 ( + ) , and NK cells are all needed to mediate the full anti - angiogenetic effect of IL - 12 .
[ Study of fungus polysaccharides compounds ( FPC ) in inducing the apoptosis of liver cancer cell Bel - 7402 ] .
To observe the influence of fungus polysaccharides compounds ( FPC ) in inducing human liver cancer cell Bel - 7402 apoptosis in cell cultivating in vitro , the authors analyzed tumor inhibitive gene P53 expression in Bel - 7402 apoptosis by applying double immuno - marker .
The result showed that the multilevel of FPC could all apparently induce Bel - 7402 apoptosis .
With the enhancement of FPC concentration , the authors observed chromatin condensation in some phases companying with the characteristic apoptosis .
In the meantime , it could also greatly reduce the G1 and S , with obviously dose - response relationship .
The percentage of cell apoptosis increased with the enhancing of concentration .
In the high - level group the authors found typical DNA ladder eletrophoresis stripe .
The result showed that the mechanism of the FPC antineoplastic effect had an intimate relation with its induction to apoptosis and that the result of FPC inducing tumor cell apoptosis had the character of P53 independence .
Effects of morphological patterning on endothelial cell migration .
The migration of vascular endothelial cells ( ECs ) plays an important role in vascular remodeling .
Here we studied the effects of cell morphology on the migration of bovine aortic ECs by culturing cells on micropatterned strips of collagen matrix ( 60 - , 30 - , and 15 - microm wide ) .
The spreading areas of the cells on 15 - and 30 - microm wide strips were 30 % lower than those on 60 - microm wide strips and unpatterned collagen .
The cells on 15 - microm wide strips completely aligned in the direction of the strip , and had significantly lower shape index than those in all other groups .
On strips of all widths , ECs tended to migrate in the direction of strips .
ECs on 15 - microm wide strips had highest speed , particularly in the direction of the strip .
Vinculin staining showed that the leading edge of ECs on 15 - microm wide strips had focal adhesions that were oriented with their lamellipodial protrusion and the direction of cell migration ; this arrangement of the focal adhesions may promote EC migration .
The present study provides direct evidence on the role of cell morphology in EC migration , and will help us to understand the mechanisms of EC migration during angiogenesis and wound healing .
Thrombospondin - 2 plays a protective role in multistep carcinogenesis : a novel host anti - tumor defense mechanism .
The angiogenic switch during tumorigenesis is thought to be induced by a change in the balance of pro - angiogenic and anti - angiogenic factors .
To elucidate the biological role of the endogenous angiogenesis inhibitor thrombospondin - 2 ( TSP - 2 ) during multistep carcinogenesis , we subjected TSP - 2 - deficient and wild - type mice to a chemical skin carcinogenesis regimen .
Surprisingly , TSP - 2 expression was strongly upregulated in the mesenchymal stroma of wild - type mice throughout the consecutive stages of tumorigenesis whereas the angiogenesis factor , vascular endothelial growth factor , was induced predominantly in tumor cells .
TSP - 2 deficiency dramatically enhanced susceptibility to skin carcinogenesis and resulted in accelerated and increased tumor formation .
The angiogenic switch occurred in early stages of pre - malignant tumor formation , and tumor angiogenesis was significantly enhanced in TSP - 2 - deficient mice .
While TSP - 2 deficiency did not affect tumor differentiation or proliferation , tumor cell apoptosis was significantly reduced .
These results reveal upregulation of an endogenous angiogenesis inhibitor during multi step tumorigenesis and identify enhanced stromal TSP - 2 expression as a novel host anti - tumor defense mechanism .
Relationship of p53 and Helicobacter pylori to clinicopathological features of human remnant stomach cancer after gastric surgery for primary gastric cancer .
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the biological features of gastric cancer of the remnant stomach ( RSC ) .
Twenty - one patients underwent resection of the remnant stomach for RSC and were divided into two groups : the RSCB group consisted of 11 patients who underwent distal gastrectomy for benign disease and the RSCM group consisted of 10 patients who underwent gastrectomy for primary gastric cancer .
The interval between primary surgery and the appearance of gastric cancer in the remnant stomach was significantly shorter in the RSCM group than in the RSCB group .
Invasion of adjacent organs was more frequent in the RSCM group than in the RSCB group and the Ki - 67 labeling index of the tumors was significantly higher in the former group .
Furthermore , p53 overexpression by tumors was almost twice as common in the RSCM group as in the RSCB group .
Although there was no significant difference of the H . pylori positivity between the two groups , the rate for both groups was higher than reported in previous studies .
Mutation of p53 may play an important role in the high proliferative activity of tumors in the RSCM group and H . pylori infection may be closely related to carcinogenesis in patients with RSC .
Current prospects for controlling cancer growth with non - cytotoxic agents - - nutrients , phytochemicals , herbal extracts , and available drugs .
In animal or cell culture studies , the growth and spread of cancer can be slowed by many nutrients , food factors , herbal extracts , and well - tolerated , available drugs that are still rarely used in the clinical management of cancer , in part because they seem unlikely to constitute definitive therapies in themselves .
However , it is reasonable to expect that mechanistically complementary combinations of these measures could have a worthwhile impact on survival times and , when used as adjuvants , could improve the cure rates achievable with standard therapies .
The therapeutic options available in this regard include measures that : down - regulate serum free IGF - I ; suppress the synthesis of mevalonic acid and / or certain derivatives thereof ; modulate arachidonate metabolism by inhibiting 5 - lipoxygenase , 12 - lipoxygenase , or COX - 2 ; antagonize the activation of AP - 1 transcription factors ; promote the activation of PPAR - gamma transcription factors ; and that suppress angiogenesis by additional mechanisms .
Many of these measures appear suitable for use in cancer prevention .
Oncogenic mechanisms of Evi - 1 protein .
Although Evi - 1 is thought to promote growth or block differentiation in some cell types , its biological functions have not been elucidated .
To explore the mechanisms underlying Evi - 1 - induced oncogenesis , we investigated whether Evi - 1 affects the signaling of transforming growth factor beta ( TGF - beta ) , which inhibits proliferation of a wide range of cell types and is one of the most studied growth regulatory factors .
We demonstrated that Evi - 1 represses TGF - beta signaling and antagonizes its growth - inhibitory effects .
Two separate regions of Evi - 1 are responsible for this repression , one of which is the first zinc - finger domain .
Through this domain , Evi - 1 physically interacts with Smad3 , an intracellular mediator of TGF - beta signaling , thereby suppressing the transcriptional activity of Smad3 .
These results define a novel function of Evi - 1 as a repressor of signaling components of TGF - beta .
We also demonstrated that Evi - 1 represses Smad - induced transcriptional activation by recruiting CtBP as a corepressor .
Evi - 1 associates with CtBP1 through one of the CtBP - binding consensus motifs within the region from amino acid 544 to 607 , and this association is required for the efficient inhibition of TGF - beta signaling .
A specific histone deacetylase ( HDAc ) inhibitor , trichostatin A ( TSA ) , alleviates Evi - 1 - mediated repression of TGF - beta signaling , suggesting that HDAc is involved in transcriptional repression by Evi - 1 .
This identifies a novel function of Evi - 1 as a member of corepressor complexes and suggests that aberrant recruitment of corepressors is one of the mechanisms involved in Evi - 1 - induced leukemogenesis .
These results indicate that specific HDAc inhibitors may be useful in the treatment of Evi - 1 - induced neoplastic tumors , including myeloid leukemias .
Antibodies to PAI - 1 alter the invasive and migratory properties of human tumour cells in vitro .
Recent reports suggest that elevated levels of plasminogen activator inhibitor - 1 ( PAI - 1 ) may contribute to tumour progression .
The studies reported here were designed to help elucidate PAI - 1 ' s contribution to the invasive and migratory phenotype .
Antibodies to PA - 1 dose - dependently , and significantly , inhibited the invasive and migratory potential of human HT1080 fibrosarcoma cells , as did an antibody to uPA and the plasmin inhibitor aprotinin .
Invasion of the human melanoma cell line , BLM , was also attenuated by the anti - PAI - 1 monoclonal antibody MAI - 12 .
The non - invasive human melanoma cell line , IF6 , which does not express uPA , provided further confirmation of PAI - 1 and uPA ' s role as , upon transfection with uPA , this cell line attained an invasive phenotype , which was again attenuated by MAI - 12 .
Although antibodies to PAI - 1 did not affect the adhesion of HT1080 cells to vitronectin , the antibody to uPA reduced their attachment .
Addition of exogenous PAI - 1 , however , prevented HT1080 cell adhesion ( IC50 180 nM ) and promoted cell detachment from vitronectin .
Furthermore melanoma cells transfected with a uPA variant , which had an impaired interaction with PAI - 1 , were not invasive and had impaired binding to vitronectin .
These data highlight the importance of a balanced proteolysis and suggest an additional role for PAI - 1 distinct from its role in proteolysis .
These data also suggest that uPA and PAI - 1 may co - operate in the migratory process by respectively facilitating the attachment to , and subsequent detachment from , vitronectin in the extracellular matrix .
These results support the clinical findings and indicate that modulation of PAI - 1 activity may be of therapeutic benefit for the treatment of cancer .
Inhibition of PDGF - stimulated and matrix - mediated proliferation of human vascular smooth muscle cells by SPARC is independent of changes in cell shape or cyclin - dependent kinase inhibitors .
Interactions among growth factors , cells , and extracellular matrix regulate proliferation during normal development and in pathologies such as atherosclerosis .
SPARC ( secreted protein , acidic , and rich in cysteine ) is a matrix - associated glycoprotein that modulates the adhesion and proliferation of vascular cells .
In this study , we demonstrate that SPARC inhibits human arterial smooth muscle cell proliferation stimulated by platelet - derived growth factor or by adhesion to monomeric type I collagen .
Binding studies with SPARC and SPARC peptides indicate specific and saturable interaction with smooth muscle cells that involves the C - terminal Ca2 + - binding region of the protein .
We also report that SPARC arrests monomeric collagen - supported smooth muscle cell proliferation in the late G1 - phase of the cell cycle in the absence of an effect on cell shape or on levels of cyclin - dependent kinase inhibitors .
Cyclin - dependent kinase - 2 activity , p107 and cyclin A levels , and retinoblastoma protein phosphorylation are markedly reduced in response to the addition of exogenous SPARC and / or peptides derived from specific domains of SPARC .
Thus , SPARC , previously characterized as an inhibitor of platelet - derived growth factor binding to its receptor , also antagonizes smooth muscle cell proliferation mediated by monomeric collagen at the level of cyclin - dependent kinase - 2 activity .
Prognostic significance of heat shock protein 27 ( HSP27 ) in patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma .
Heat shock proteins ( HSPs ) have been defined as proteins induced by heat shock and other environmental and pathophysiologic stress .
Heat shock protein 27 ( HSP27 ) is one of the small heat shock proteins .
HSP27 is implicated in protein - protein interactions such as folding , translocation , and prevention of inappropriate protein aggregation .
Many of their functions suggest that they play important roles in cancers .
Archival tissues from 40 patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma who received primary surgical resection were examined for HSP27 by immunohistochemistry and correlated with clinical stage , lymph node metastasis , histological grade and survival period .
HSP27 expression was positive staining ( + ) in 20 ( 50 % ) , weak or negative staining ( - ) in 20 ( 50 % ) of total 40 cases .
There was no correlation between HSP27 expression and clinical stage , lymph node metastasis and histological grade .
However , when compared with clinicopathological features , the expression of HSP27 correlated inversely with survival period .
This study suggests that the expression of HSP27 is frequently promoted in patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma and should be considered an independent prognostic factor of oral squamous cell carcinoma patients .
Upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor receptors is associated with advanced neuroblastoma .
BACKGROUND : Angiogenesis is essential for tumor growth and relies on the production of angiogenic factors .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is a major regulator of angiogenesis that binds to tyrosine kinase receptors Flt - 1 and KDR .
The interaction of VEGF and its receptors at gene and protein levels in neuroblastoma remains widely unknown .
METHODS : Tumor biopsy specimens and serum were obtained from 37 neuroblastoma patients ; adrenal biopsy sections and sera of 7 normal children served as controls .
Biopsy specimens were examined by real - time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction ( RT - PCR ) and Western blotting ; serum was analyzed by enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) .
VEGF - A ( 165 ) , B , C , Flt - 1 , and KDR were analyzed .
RESULTS : VEGF isoforms and its receptors ' mRNA were expressed in neuroblastoma and control tissues .
Whereas the ligands were increased in stages III and IV , the receptors were upregulated in stage III only .
At protein level , VEGF - B and C , Flt - 1 , and KDR were not detectable in tissue lysates , whereas VEGF - A was increased in stages III and IV .
Serum VEGF protein levels were upregulated in stage III .
CONCLUSIONS : VEGF - A ( 165 ) is one of the major angiogenesis regulators among the ligands ' family of VEGF , whereas its receptors KDR , and most probably Flt - 1 , may contribute to a poor prognosis ( angiogenic ) phenotype , as indicated by their upregulated MRNA levels in stage III neuroblastoma .
VEGF - A ( 165 ) mainly contributes to increased serum VEGF levels and may serve as a diagnostic tool in advanced - stage neuroblastoma .
Hypoxia - inducible factor 1 activation by aerobic glycolysis implicates the Warburg effect in carcinogenesis .
Cancer cells display high rates of aerobic glycolysis , a phenomenon known historically as the Warburg effect .
Lactate and pyruvate , the end products of glycolysis , are highly produced by cancer cells even in the presence of oxygen .
Hypoxia - induced gene expression in cancer cells has been linked to malignant transformation .
Here we provide evidence that lactate and pyruvate regulate hypoxia - inducible gene expression independently of hypoxia by stimulating the accumulation of hypoxia - inducible Factor 1alpha ( HIF - 1alpha ) .
In human gliomas and other cancer cell lines , the accumulation of HIF - 1alpha protein under aerobic conditions requires the metabolism of glucose to pyruvate that prevents the aerobic degradation of HIF - 1alpha protein , activates HIF - 1 DNA binding activity , and enhances the expression of several HIF - 1 - activated genes including erythropoietin , vascular endothelial growth factor , glucose transporter 3 , and aldolase A .
Our findings support a novel role for pyruvate in metabolic signaling and suggest a mechanism by which high rates of aerobic glycolysis can promote the malignant transformation and survival of cancer cells .
Risk of myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia in congenital neutropenias .
Almost all patients respond to G - CSF with increased neutrophils , reduced infections , and improved survival .
Some responders with congenital neutropenia and Shwachman - Diamond syndrome ( SDS ) have developed myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia ( MDS / AML ) , which raises the question of the role of G - CSF in pathogenesis .
The issue is complicated because both disorders have a propensity for MDS or AML as part of their natural history .
To address this , the Severe Chronic Neutropenia International Registry ( SCNIR ) used its large database of chronic neutropenia patients treated with G - CSF to determine the incidence of malignant myeloid transformation in the two disorders , and its relationship to treatment and to other patient characteristics .
No statistically significant relationships were found between age at onset of MDS or AML and patient gender , G - CSF dose , or duration of G - CSF therapy .
What was observed , however , was the multistep acquisition of aberrant cellular genetic changes in marrow cells from patients who transformed , including activating ras oncogene mutations , clonal cytogenetic abnormalities , and G - CSF receptor mutations .
In murine models , the latter produces a hyperproliferative response to G - CSF , confers resistance to apoptosis , and enhances cell survival .
Since congenital neutropenia and SDS are inherited forms of bone marrow failure , G - CSF may accelerate the propensity for MDS / AML in the genetically altered stem and progenitor cells , especially in those with G - CSF receptor and ras mutations ( 82 % and 50 % of patients who transform , respectively ) .
In patients who transform to overt MDS or AML , hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is the only chance for cure .
One option is to reduce the G - CSF dosage as much as possible , and observe the tempo of progression , if any , to more overt signs of malignancy .
Hypoxic induction of HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma lines is mediated by stress activated protein kinases .
Solid tumors must establish a blood supply in order to proliferate and grow .
Cancer cells secrete soluble factors which can induce proliferation and migration of capillary endothelial cells .
Among the most potent of the angiogenic factors is vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
Increased VEGF expression by malignant tumors has been associated with high vascularity , increased cancer cell growth , and lymph node metastasis .
Reduced oxygen tension has been shown to increase VEGF production by induction of the transcription factor hypoxia inducible factor 1 alpha ( HIF - 1alpha ) .
The mechanisms by which hypoxic tumor environments induce HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression are largely unknown .
Jun N terminal kinase ( JNK1 ) and p38 kinase are activated by a variety of stress stimuli .
To determine if hypoxic activation of these stress activated protein kinases regulated HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression , we assayed JNK1 and p38 activity in squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) lines grown under normoxic or hypoxic conditions .
Hypoxia rapidly induced both JNK1 and p38 activity in these cells .
This activation correlated with induction of HIF - 1alpha expression and DNA binding activity which was blocked by the p38 inhibitor SB203580 .
Hypoxia also increased VEGF production by SCC lines , which was inhibited by treatment with SB203580 .
Overexpression of JNK1 or p38 was sufficient to induce HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression .
These results indicate that induction of SAPKs by hypoxia regulates HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression in head and neck carcinoma cell lines .
Simian virus 40 large T antigen and two independent T - antigen segments sensitize cells to apoptosis following genotoxic damage .
The simian virus 40 ( SV40 ) large tumor ( T ) antigen is sufficient to transform cells in cultures and induce tumors in experimental animals .
Transformation of primary cells in cultures requires both overcoming growth arrest by stimulating the cell cycle and blocking cell death activities presumably activated by oncogene - mediated hyperproliferation signals .
The study presented here examined the ability of specific regions and activities of T antigen to modulate apoptosis in cells treated with the genotoxic agent 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) .
The results showed that the expression of full - length T antigen rendered rat embryo fibroblasts ( REF ) sensitive to 5 - FU - induced apoptosis .
Thus , neither the p53 - binding region nor the Bcl - 2 homology region of T antigen was sufficient to prevent cell death induced by the DNA - damaging agent .
T - antigen - mediated sensitization occurred independently of retinoblastoma protein or p53 and p300 binding .
An N - terminal segment containing the first 127 T - antigen amino acids ( T1 - 127 ) was sufficient to sensitize cells .
A C - terminal segment consisting of T - antigen amino acids 251 to 708 ( T251 - 708 ) also sensitized cells to 5 - FU - induced apoptosis .
This sensitization did not occur when T251 - 708 was targeted to the nucleus by inclusion of the SV40 nuclear localization signal .
The introduction of mutations into the T - antigen J domain resulted in mutation - specific and variable inhibition of apoptosis .
This result suggested that either the structural or the functional integrity of the J domain is required to sensitize cells to apoptosis .
Treatment of REF or REF expressing full - length T antigen , an N - terminal segment , or T251 - 708 resulted in increased expression of the p53 - responsive MDM2 gene ; apoptosis occurred through a p53 - dependent pathway , as p53 - null cells expressing these T antigens were resistant to 5 - FU - induced apoptosis .
Possible mechanisms involved in sensitizing cells to a p53 - dependent apoptosis pathway in spite of the ability of T antigen to bind and inactivate the transcriptional transactivating activity of p53 are discussed .
Optimizing treatment of choroidal neovascularization feeder vessels associated with age - related macular degeneration .
PURPOSE : To optimize the method of treating choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) associated with age - related macular degeneration ( AMD ) .
DESIGN : Experimental study and interventional case series .
METHODS : The parameters associated with locating and then photocoagulating CNV feeder vessels were identified and optimized using published data and data derived from modeling the choroidal vasculature .
Based on these optimized parameters , a prototype diagnostic / treatment system was designed that captures high - speed indocyanine green ( ICG ) angiogram images and facilitates analysis of the images by enhancing visualization of dye movement through CNV feeder vessels ( FVs ) .
The system also permits precise aiming and delivery of 810 - nm wavelength photocoagulation laser energy to target FVs on a real - time ICG angiogram image of the choroidal vasculature .
Target FVs are tracked by a joy - stick controlled laser aiming beam until an intravenously - injected high - concentration ICG dye bolus is observed to enter the target vessel , at which time the laser is fired .
Proof of principle of the combined diagnosis / treatment system design for performing dye - enhanced photocoagulation ( DEP ) in the clinical setting and determination of the minimum DEP laser energy needed to close CNV FVs was made in 11 AMD patients requiring treatment of CNV , but for whom other treatment was not appropriate .
RESULTS : Using ICG - DEP , CNV feeder vessels were closed with single pulse laser energy , delivering as little as 0 . 6 to 1 . 8 J of energy to the fundus , producing no visible change in the fundus .
Successful FV closure was usually indicated immediately by presence of incarcerated ICG dye in the vessel adjacent to the burn site .
The prototype system proved relatively easy to operate .
After acquiring and interpreting diagnostic angiograms and repositioning a patient in front of the device , feeder vessel DEP and treatment evaluation required 15 to 20 minutes .
CONCLUSIONS : Indocyanine green dye - enhanced photocoagulation of CNV feeder vessels , facilitated by use of a device that permits real - time visualization of the choroidal circulation while aiming the treatment laser beam , appears to minimize the amount of energy applied to the fundus and the volume of fundus tissue affected by treatment , compared with other treatment modalities .
The combination diagnosis / treatment device should be useful in optimizing FV treatment and in refining and evaluating the efficacy of DEP in future clinical trials .
Inhibition of angiogenesis by the cancer chemopreventive agent conjugated linoleic acid .
Dietary conjugated linoleic acid ( CLA ) has been shown previously to inhibit rat mammary carcinogenesis .
In addition to direct effects on mammary epithelial cells , including decreased proliferation and induction of apoptosis , CLA may exert its effects indirectly by inhibiting the differentiation of mammary stromal cells to an endothelial cell type .
Specifically , CLA was found to decrease the ability of mammary stromal cells to form complex anastomosing microcapillary networks in vitro on Engelbreth - Holm - Swarm - derived reconstituted basement membrane .
This suggested that CLA might inhibit angiogenesis in vivo .
To test this possibility , CD2 / F ( 1 ) mice were placed on synthetic diets containing 0 , 1 , or 2 % CLA for 6 weeks , before angiogenic challenge by s . c . injection with an angiogenic gel substrate ( Matrigel pellet assay ) .
After 7 days , the pellets from animals fed the control diet were infiltrated by abundant branching networks of blood vessels with patent lumen - containing RBCs .
In contrast , pellets from the CLA - fed animals contained fewer infiltrating cells , which formed limited branching cellular networks , the majority of which had collapsed lumen and no RBCs .
Both levels of dietary CLA showed similar effects , with the number of RBC - containing vessels per 20x field decreased to a third of that seen in control .
Dietary CLA decreased serum levels of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and whole mammary gland levels of VEGF and its receptor Flk - 1 .
Both cis - 9 , trans - 11 and trans - 10 , cis - 12 CLA isomers were effective in inhibiting angiogenesis in vitro in a dose - dependent fashion .
The ability of CLA to inhibit angiogenesis may contribute to its efficacy as a chemopreventive agent .
Molecular characterization of angiogenic properties of human oral squamous cell carcinoma cells .
Little is known about the specificity of angiogenic properties of oral cancer cells and the possible mechanisms .
Stimulatory effects on proliferation and migration of human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVEC ) characterized the angiogenic properties of oral cancer cells but not normal oral keratinocytes ( NOK ) .
ELISA found the presence of vascular endothelial growth factors ( VEGF ) both in the tested oral cancer cells and NOK .
Attenuation of the proangiogenic effects by neutralizing VEGF antibodies suggests VEGF play a key role in the acquisition of the angiogenic phenotype in oral cancer cells .
Western blotting of p53 and murine double mutant 2 ( Mdm2 ) together with p53 DNA sequencing analysis indicate that p53 function loss by mutation or overexpression of Mdm2 occurred in all tested oral cancer cells regardless of their etiology .
In summary , the angiogenic property of oral cancer cells is mediated by many factors in addition to VEGF and the functional status of p53 .
Enforced expression of tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase - 3 affects functional capillary morphogenesis and inhibits tumor growth in a murine tumor model .
Homeostasis of the extracellular matrix is a delicate balance between degradation and remodeling , the balance being maintained by the interaction of activated matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) and specific tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases ( TIMPs ) .
Up - regulation of MMP activity , favoring proteolytic degradation of the basement membrane and extracellular matrix , has been linked to tumor growth and metastasis , as well as tumor - associated angiogenesis , whereas inhibition of MMP activity appears to restrict these processes .
We have used retroviral - mediated gene delivery to effect sustained autocrine expression of TIMP - 3 in murine neuroblastoma and melanoma tumor cells in order to further examine the ability of TIMPs to inhibit angiogenesis in vivo .
Growth of both histologic types of gene - modified tumor cells in severe combined immunodeficiency ( SCID ) mice was significantly restricted when compared with controls .
Grossly , these tumors were small and had few feeding vessels .
Histologic evaluation revealed that although tumors overexpressing TIMP - 3 had an increased number of CD31 ( + ) endothelial cells , these endothelial cells had not formed functional tubules , as evidenced by decreased vessel continuity and minimal pericyte recruitment .
This effect appears to be mediated , in part , by decreased expression of vascular endothelial ( VE ) - cadherin by endothelial cells in the presence of TIMP - 3 as seen both in an in vitro assay and in TIMP - 3 - overexpressing tumors .
Taken together , these results demonstrate that overexpression of TIMP - 3 can inhibit angiogenesis and associated tumor growth , and that the antiangiogenic effects of TIMP - 3 appear to be mediated through the inhibition of functional capillary morphogenesis .
Brn - 3a , a neuronal transcription factor of the POU gene family : indications for its involvement in cancer and angiogenesis .
Brn - 3a , a member of the POU gene family ( so - called because of the similarity with the group of transcription factors Pit , Oct , and Unc ) , was found in neuronal cells engaged in the transcription activity of the p1 and p2 promoters of the most powerful antiapoptotic gene , namely , Bcl - 2 .
The alternative splicing of Brn - 3a mRNA produces two molecular forms : a longer , Bcl - 2 transactivating form , and a shorter inactive form , lacking 84 AA in the aminoterminus .
In neuronal cells , following Brn - 3a gene transfection and superexpression , an increase of 30 fold of the Bcl - 2 protein occurs , leading to apoptosis protection .
However , recent works demonstrate that Brn - 3a expression is not restricted to neuronal cells , as its activity was detected also in cancer cells of non - neuronal nature .
Looking for mechanisms linking Brn - 3a to carcinogenesis , we discuss the role of this transcription factor in influencing Bcl - 2 / p53 antagonism and Bcl - 2 / VEGF induction of tumor angiogenesis , concluding this review with a proposal for the oncogenic nature of Brn - 3a .
Roles of cell adhesion molecules in tumor angiogenesis induced by cotransplantation of cancer and endothelial cells to nude rats .
Roles of cell adhesion molecules mediating the interaction of cancer and endothelial cells in tumor angiogenesis were investigated using new in vitro and in vivo model systems with a cultured murine endothelial cell line ( F - 2 ) and human cultured epidermoid cancer cells ( A431 ) .
The A431 cells exhibited typical in vitro cell adhesion to the endothelial F - 2 cells .
The initial step of adhesion was mediated by sialyl Lewis ( x ) ( Le ( x ) ) and sialyl Le ( a ) , the carbohydrate determinants expressed on the cancer cells , and E - selectin expressed constitutively on F - 2 cells .
Prolonged culture led to the implantation of cancer cells into the monolayer of the F - 2 cells , which was mediated mainly by alpha ( 3 ) beta ( 1 ) - integrin .
F - 2 cells cultured on Matrigel showed evident tube formation , and coculture of F - 2 cells with A431 cells led to the formation of A431 cell nests constantly surrounded by tube - like networks consisting of F - 2 cells .
This in vitro morphogenesis was inhibited by the addition of anti - sialyl Le ( x ) / Le ( a ) or anti - beta ( 1 ) - integrin antibodies , which led to the formation of cancer cell aggregates that were independent from the F - 2 cell networks .
This in vitro morphological appearance was exactly reproduced in the in vivo tumors , which were formed when the mixture of A431 and F - 2 cells at the ratio of 10 : 1 were cotransplanted s . c . into the back of nude rats .
The tumors of A431 supplemented with F - 2 cells were profoundly vascularized throughout by the tubular structures formed by F - 2 cells , the lumen of which contained the host rat blood cells .
The tumor mass thus formed was an average 5 . 8 - fold as large as control A431 tumors that were grown without F - 2 cells .
The co - injection of anti - Le ( x ) / Le ( a ) or anti - beta ( 1 ) - integrin antibodies produced a marked reduction in the size of A431 tumors , which were not vascularized and accompanied an independent tiny remnant clump of F - 2 cells .
The size of these A431 tumors did not differ significantly from those of control A431 tumors raised without F - 2 cells .
These results indicate that the interaction of tumor cells and endothelial cells in orderly tumor angiomorphogenesis is highly dependent on the action of cell adhesion molecules mediating the adhesion of cancer cells to endothelial cells , inhibition of which remarkably retards tumor growth and angiogenesis .
Identification of Dss1 as a 12 - O - tetradecanoylphorbol - 13 - acetate - responsive gene expressed in keratinocyte progenitor cells , with possible involvement in early skin tumorigenesis .
This study identifies genes expressed early in 12 - O - tetradecanoylphorbol - 13 - acetate ( TPA ) - induced skin carcinogenesis in genetically initiated Tg . AC v - Ha - ras transgenic mice .
Keratinocyte progenitor cells from TPA - treated Tg . AC mice were isolated with fluorescence - activated cell sorting and expression was analyzed using cDNA microarray technology .
Eleven genes were identified whose expression changed significantly in response to carcinogen treatment .
Deleted in split hand / split foot 1 ( Dss1 ) is a gene associated with a heterogeneous limb developmental disorder called split hand / split foot malformation .
cDNA microarray expression analysis showed that the mouse homologue of Dss1 is induced by TPA .
Dss1 overexpression was detected by Northern blot analysis in early TPA - treated hyperplastic skins and in JB6 Cl 41 - 5a epidermal cells .
Interestingly , Dss1 expression was also shown to be elevated in skin papillomas relative to normal skins , and further increased in squamous cell malignancies .
Functional studies by ectopically constitutive expression of Dss1 in JB6 Cl 41 - 5a preneoplastic cells strongly increased focus formation and proliferation of these cells and enhanced efficiency of neoplastic transformation of the cells in soft agar .
These results strongly suggest that Dss1 is a TPA - inducible gene that may play an important role in the early stages of skin carcinogenesis .
Downregulation of c - FLIP sensitizes DU145 prostate cancer cells to Fas - mediated apoptosis .
Although DU145 prostate cancer cells are resistant to exogenously applied Fas agonist CH - 11 ( anti - Fas monoclonal antibody ) , Fas - resistance can be overcome using a FasL expressing adenovirus ( AdGFPFasL ( TET ) ) [ Hyer et al . , Molecular Therapy , 2000 ; 2 : 348 - 58 ( ref . 12 ) ] .
The purpose of this study was to try to understand why DU145 cells are resistant to CH - 11 and determine the signaling pathway utilized by AdGFPFasL ( TET ) to induce apoptosis in these Fas - resistant cells .
Using immunoblot analysis , we show that AdGFPFasL ( TET ) is capable of initiating the classic Fas - mediated apoptotic pathway in DU145 cells , which includes activation of caspases - 8 , - 3 , - 7 , and - 9 , BID cleavage , cytochrome c release from mitochondria , and PARP cleavage .
In contrast , CH - 11 binds to Fas , but is unable to transmit the death signal beyond the plasma membrane suggesting a block at the DISC ( death inducing signaling complex ) .
The anti - apoptotic protein c - FLIP ( cellular Flice - like inhibitory protein ) , which has been shown to inhibit Fas - mediated apoptosis at the DISC , was down - regulated following AdGFPFasL ( TET ) treatment prompting us to investigate its role in inhibiting CH - 11 - induced cell death .
Using c - FLIP anti - sense oligonucleotides to down - regulate c - FLIP we sensitized DU145 cells to CH - 11 - induced apoptosis .
These data suggest that c - FLIP may play a critical role in regulating Fas - mediated apoptosis in prostate cancer cells and that modulation of c - FLIP may enhance Fas signaling based therapies .
Topoisomerase I protein expression in primary colorectal cancer and lymph node metastases .
Topoisomerase I ( topo I ) is an important target for the treatment of malignant disease , especially colorectal cancer .
Because there is little information on the expression of topo I in colorectal tumors , this study evaluated and characterized topo I protein expression in primary colorectal cancer and lymph node metastases and studied the association between topo I protein expression and clinicopathologic data , p53 status , and proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( PCNA ) status .
Immunohistochemistry assay was performed for topo I protein expression in 249 primary human colorectal cancer and 42 paired lymph node metastasis samples .
Topo I expression was described as the percentage of cells staining positive for topo I , along with the intensity and localization of the staining .
Clinicopathologic data ( sex , age , Dukes ' stage , differentiation grade , survival status ) , p53 status , and PCNA status were statistically analyzed for association with topo I protein expression .
Topo I expression in paired primary lymph node metastases were studied for concordance .
Topo I protein expression was detected in 127 ( 51 % ) samples , including 24 . 4 % with > 50 % positive tumor cells .
The majority had nuclear ( 70 . 1 % ) or nuclear and cytoplasmic staining ( 17 . 3 % ) .
A higher percentage of cells expressing topo I in primary colorectal cancer was significantly associated with advanced age ( P = . 040 ) .
Patients with rectal cancer had greater topo I expression than those with colon tumors ( P = . 029 ) .
No significant correlation was found between topo I protein expression and sex , Dukes ' stage , differentiation grade , survival status , p53 status , and PCNA status .
Concordance in topo I staining between primary and lymph node metastases was observed in 33 of 42 cases ( P = . 029 ) .
This suggests that the activity of topo I inhibitors will not differ across various tumor stages , pathology , and patient gender .
p53 and PCNA status do not appear to influence topo I expression , and topo I has no apparent association with the acquisition of a metastatic phenotype .
Topo I expression now needs to be evaluated in patients undergoing topo I - inhibitor therapy , to better define the role of this protein as a predictive marker .
Regulation of transforming growth factor - beta signaling and vascular diseases .
PURPOSE : Members of the transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - beta superfamily play critical roles in regulation of various cellular functions .
Dysregulation of the signaling mechanisms of the TGF - beta superfamily proteins is associated with clinical diseases such as cancer , fibrotic diseases , and vascular disorders .
Therefore , understanding these signaling mechanisms may provide us with novel ways to develop strategies for treating clinical diseases induced by these cytokines .
METHODS : This review discusses our current understanding of the mechanisms of TGF - beta signaling , focusing on the roles of TGF - beta in regulation of vascular wall cells and on the regulation of TGF - beta superfamily signals by inhibitory Smads .
[ Expression and mutation of c - kit gene in gastrointestinal stromal tumor ] .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the effect of the expression and mutation of c - kit gene and its relationship with clinical pathology and prognosis of gastrointestinal stromal tumor ( GIST ) .
METHODS : Immunohistochemical and PCR - SSCP techniques were used to detect c - kit protein expression and c - kit gene exon 11 mutation in 82 patients with GIST .
RESULTS : The positive c - kit protein expression and c - kit gene mutation rates were 97 . 6 % ( 80 / 82 ) and 41 . 5 % ( 34 / 82 ) .
Correlating the results of these two methods and clinicopathological factors , the c - kit expression and c - kit gene mutation rates were 95 . 0 % ( 19 / 20 ) and 0 in benign GIST , and were 98 . 4 % ( 61 / 62 ) , 54 . 8 % ( 34 / 62 ) in malignant GIST .
Mutation positive GIST showed higher frequency of adjacent tissue invasion , metastasis and recurrence as compared with mutation negative ones .
CONCLUSION : c - kit protein is an important diagnostic marker of gastrointestinal stromal tumor .
c - kit gene mutation may play a significant role in the pathogenesis of GIST and also may be a prognostic marker .
Inhibition of glucose metabolism sensitizes tumor cells to death receptor - triggered apoptosis through enhancement of death - inducing signaling complex formation and apical procaspase - 8 processing .
Tumors display a high rate of glucose uptake and glycolysis .
We investigated how inhibition of glucose metabolism could affect death receptor - mediated apoptosis in human tumor cells of diverse origin .
We show that both substitution of glucose for pyruvate and treatment with 2 - deoxyglucose enhanced apoptosis induced by tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) - alpha , CD95 agonistic antibody , and TNF - related apoptosis - inducing ligand ( TRAIL ) .
Inhibition of glucose metabolism enhanced killing of myeloid leukemia U937 , cervical carcinoma HeLa , and breast carcinoma MCF - 7 cells upon death receptor ligation .
Caspase activation , mitochondrial depolarization , and cytochrome c release were increased under these conditions .
Glucose deprivation - mediated sensitization to apoptosis was prevented in MCF - 7 cells overexpressing BCL - 2 .
Interestingly , the human B - lymphoblastoid cell line SKW6 . 4 , a prototype for mitochondria - independent death receptor - induced apoptosis , was also sensitized to anti - CD95 and TRAIL - induced apoptosis under glucose - free conditions .
Changes in c - FLIP ( L ) and cFLIPs levels were observed in some but not all the cell lines studied following glucose deprivation .
Glucose deprivation enhanced death receptor - triggered formation of death - inducing signaling complex and early processing of procaspase - 8 .
Altogether , these results suggest that the glycolytic pathway may be an important target for therapeutic intervention to sensitize tumor cells to selectively toxic soluble death ligands or death ligand - expressing cells of the immune system by facilitating the activation of initiator caspase - 8 .
Arteriogenesis : the development and growth of collateral arteries .
In patients with atherosclerotic vascular diseases , collateral vessels bypassing major arterial obstructions have frequently been observed .
This may explain why some patients remain without symptoms or signs of ischemia .
Many observations in various animal models and humans support that the remodeling of preexisting collateral vessels is the mechanism of collateral artery formation .
This remodeling process seems to be mainly flow - mediated .
It involves endothelial cell activation , basal membrane degradation , leukocyte invasion , proliferation of vascular cells , neointima formation ( in most species studied ) , and changes of the extracellular matrix .
The contribution of ischemia to arteriogenesis is still unclear , but arteriogenesis clearly can occur in the absence of any significant ischemia .
It is questionable , whether collateral arteries also form de novo in ischemic vascular diseases .
A better understanding of the mechanisms of arteriogenesis will be important for the design of more effective strategies for the treatment of patients with ischemic vascular diseases .
Bee venom induces apoptosis and inhibits expression of cyclooxygenase - 2 mRNA in human lung cancer cell line NCI - H1299 .
To investigate whether bee venom ( BV ) induces apoptosis , the 3 - ( 4 , 5 - dimethylthiazol - 2 - yl ) - 2 , 5 - diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay , terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase - mediated dUTP nick end - labeling assay , 4 , 6 - diamidino - 2 - phenylindole staining , flow cytometric analysis , and DNA fragmentation assay were performed on NCI - H1299 lung cancer cells treated with BV .
Through morphological and biochemical analyses , it was demonstrated that NCI - H1299 cells treated with BV exhibit several features of apoptosis .
In addition , reverse transcription - polymerase chain reaction and prostaglandin E ( 2 ) ( PGE ( 2 ) ) immunoassay were performed to verify whether BV possesses an inhibitory effect on the expression of cyclooxygenase ( COX ) and PGE ( 2 ) synthesis .
Expression of COX - 2 mRNA and synthesis of PGE ( 2 ) were inhibited by BV .
These results suggest the possibility that BV may exert an anti - tumor effect on human lung cancer .
Possible role of cyclooxygenase II in the acquisition of ovarian luteal function in rodents .
The development of the corpus luteum ( CL ) , which involves angiogenesis , is essential for the establishment of early pregnancy .
We investigated the roles of the prostaglandin synthases cyclooxygenase ( COX ) I and COX - II in angiogenesis and progesterone production in the newly formed CL , using inhibitors of the COX enzymes and the gonadotropin - induced pseudopregnant rat as a model .
Injection of indomethacin , a nonselective COX inhibitor , on the day of ovulation and the following day decreased serum levels of progesterone , as did injection of the selective COX - II inhibitor NS - 398 .
In contrast , a selective COX - I inhibitor , SC - 560 , had no effect on serum progesterone concentrations .
None of the inhibitors had any effect on the weight of the superovulated ovaries or on the synthesis of progesterone by cultured luteal cells .
To determine whether changes in angiogenesis are responsible for the decrease in progesterone synthesis , we measured hemoglobin and CD34 levels in luteinized ovaries following injection of COX inhibitors and measured the relative frequency of cells positive for platelet - endothelial cell adhesion molecule as a specific marker for endothelial cells .
All of these parameters were reduced by the COX - II inhibitors , suggesting that changes in the vasculature are responsible for the decrease in serum progesterone .
Histological examination of ovarian corrosion casts indicated that NS - 398 inhibited the establishment of luteal capillary vessels following the injection of hCG .
The results are consistent with the hypothesis that the activity of COX - II is associated with the formation of functional CL via its stimulation of angiogenesis .
Tumor angiogenesis modulates leukocyte - vessel wall interactions in vivo by reducing endothelial adhesion molecule expression .
The expression of endothelial cell ( EC ) adhesion molecules involved in leukocyte - vessel wall interactions is suppressed in malignancies .
In the present study , we investigated in vivo the regulation of leukocyte - vessel wall interactions by the presence of a tumor .
By means of intravital microscopy , tumor necrosis factor alpha - stimulated leukocyte - vessel wall interactions were studied in ear skin microvessels of nude mice bearing small human LS174T colon carcinomas and in C57Bl / 6 mice bearing murine B16F10 melanomas .
Leukocyte - vessel wall interactions were studied both within and outside small tumors growing in the ear , and in ear microvessels of mice with a large tumor growing on their flank .
Tumor - free mice were used as controls .
Compared with values measured at the edge of the ear and in the contralateral ear , leukocyte adhesion was found to be diminished significantly in vessels inside the ear tumor in both mouse models .
This reduction disappeared with increasing distance from the tumor .
Surprisingly , the level of leukocyte adhesion in ear venules of mice with a large flank tumor was also reduced significantly .
Leukocyte rolling , i . e . , the step preceding adhesion , was not influenced by the presence of a tumor in nude mice , but was down - regulated in immune - competent C57Bl / 6 mice .
Treatment of mice bearing a small ear tumor with a humanized antivascular endothelial growth factor antibody prevented the down - regulation of leukocyte - vessel wall interactions inside the tumor vessels compared with the nontreated group .
Fluorescence - activated cell sorter analysis showed that isolated tumor ECs have suppressed levels of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 as compared with ECs from normal mouse tissues .
In cultured b . END5 cells the tumor necrosis factor alpha - induced up - regulation of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 and vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 was reduced in ECs that were preincubated with basic fibroblast growth factor or vascular endothelial growth factor .
The current results may have an impact on the effectiveness of clinical immunotherapeutic treatment protocols , because immune effector cells may not be able to enter tumor tissue .
[ Effects of Epstein - Barr virus latent membrane protein 1 ( EBV - LMP1 ) on related factors of metastasis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line CNE1 ] .
BACKGROUND & # 38 ; OBJECTIVE : It has been proved that Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) latent membrane protein 1 ( EBV - LMP1 ) can induce the expression of matrix metalloproteinase - 9 ( MMP - 9 ) .
This study was designed to investigate the effect of EBV - LMP1 on related factors of metastasis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line CNE1 .
METHODS : Expression of MMP - 9 was studied in human NPC cell lines cultured in vitro : CNE1 ( well differentiated cell line of NPC ) and CNE1 - GL ( CNE1 cell line transfected with an eukaryotic LMP1 - expression plasmid ) by SP immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis .
Cell - matrix adhesion assay was used to study the adhesive ability of CNE1 - GL cells .
The effects of LMP1 on the invasion and migration of CNE1 cells were investigated by transwell methods .
RESULTS : MMP - 9 was expressed in both cell lines but the intensity of the staining was different .
The positive rates of expression of MMP - 9 in CNE1 and CNE1 - GL cells were 30 . 2 % and 98 . 2 % , respectively ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
The increased expression of MMP - 9 was also shown in CNE1 - GL cells by Western blot analysis .
Cell - matrix adhesion assay showed that the adhesive ability of CNE1 - GL with the matrix ( mean A value : 1 . 2508 + / - 0 . 0711 ) was higher than that of CNE1 cell ( mean A value : 0 . 9519 + / - 0 . 068 ) ( P < 0 . 001 ) .
Invasion assay and migration assay showed that the invasion and migration of CNE1 - GL cell were higher than those of CNE1 cells ( P < 0 . 01 ) .
CONCLUSION : The transfection of LMP1 can increase the expression of MMP - 9 in CNE1 cells .
Abilities of adhesion , migration , and invasion of CNE1 cell were induced by LMP1 .
It is suggested that MMP - 9 may have a role in the LMP1 - induced acceleration of invasion and metastasis of NPC cells .
Truncated galectin - 3 inhibits tumor growth and metastasis in orthotopic nude mouse model of human breast cancer .
PURPOSE : The goal of this research was to evaluate a potential therapeutic agent for breast cancer based on galectin - 3 that has been implicated in tumorigenicity and metastasis of breast cancer .
The hypothesis was that therapy with NH ( 2 ) - terminally truncated form of galectin - 3 ( galectin - 3C ) will be efficacious for reduction in tumor growth and for inhibition of metastases .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : Recombinant human galectin - 3 was produced in Escherichia coli from which galectin - 3C was derived by collagenase enzyme digestion .
Toxicity , pharmacokinetic , and organ biodistribution studies were performed in nude mice .
For efficacy studies , nude mice bearing orthotopically implanted tumors derived from breast cancer cell line MDA - MB - 435 were treated with galectin - 3C or a vehicle control i . m . twice daily for 90 days .
RESULTS : The maximum tolerated dose of galectin - 3C in nude mice was determined to be > 125 mg / kg without overt adverse effects .
The elimination half - life when administered i . m . was found to be 3 . 0 h in the serum and 4 . 3 h in the cellular fraction of the blood .
Organ biodistribution studies revealed that galectin - 3C localized in the liver , kidneys , and spleen but not in the heart or lungs .
We found that the mean tumor volumes and weights were statistically significantly less in mice treated with galectin - 3C compared with control mice , and that fewer numbers of mice exhibited lymph node metastases in the treated group compared with the control group .
CONCLUSIONS : Galectin - 3C is not overtly toxic , and is efficacious in reducing metastases and tumor volumes and weights in primary tumors in an orthotopic nude mouse model of human breast cancer .
Prognostic value of p53 protein expression and vascular endothelial growth factor expression in resected squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus .
The most common genetic alterations found in a wide variety of cancers are p53 tumor suppressor gene mutations .
p53 appears to be a nuclear transcription factor that plays a role in the control of cell proliferation , apoptosis , and the maintenance of genetic stability .
Angiogenesis is a critical process in solid tumor growth and metastasis .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , a recently identified growth factor with significant angiogenic properties , may be a major tumor angiogenesis regulator .
Few studies have investigated the association between p53 and VEGF expressions and prognosis in esophageal carcinoma .
Forty - seven specimens resected from patients with stage II and III squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) of the esophagus were studied using immunohistochemical staining .
VEGF and p53 expressions were observed in 40 % and 53 % of the tumors , respectively .
The p53 and VEGF staining statuses were coincident in only 21 % of the tumors , and no significant correlation was found between p53 and VEGF statuses .
No clinicopathologic factors were significantly correlated with p53 or VEGF expression .
No significant association between p53 and VEGF expressions and poor prognosis was found .
In conclusion , p53 and VEGF were not correlated with prognosis in patients with stage II and III SCC of the esophagus .
Therapeutic targeting of the survivin pathway in cancer : initiation of mitochondrial apoptosis and suppression of tumor - associated angiogenesis .
PURPOSE : Molecular antagonists of the inhibitor of apoptosis protein survivin have shown promise as novel anticancer strategies for triggering tumor cell apoptosis , dysregulating mitotic progression , and inhibiting tumor growth in preclinical models .
However , how survivin couples to the cell death machinery has remained elusive , and the relevant cellular targets of survivin antagonists have not been completely elucidated .
Experimental Design : Human umbilical vein and dermal microvascular endothelial cells were infected with replication - deficient adenoviruses encoding survivin ( pAd - Survivin ) , green fluorescent protein ( pAd - GFP ) , or a phosphorylation - defective survivin Thr ( 34 ) - - > Ala ( pAd - T34A ) dominant negative mutant .
The effect of wild - type or mutant survivin was investigated on capillary network stability , endothelial cell viability , and caspase activation in vitro and on kinetics of tumor growth and development of angiogenesis in a breast cancer xenograft model in vivo .
The cell death pathway initiated by survivin targeting was mapped with respect to cytochrome c release , changes in mitochondrial transmembrane potential , and apoptosome requirements using mouse embryonic fibroblasts deficient in Apaf - 1 or caspase - 9 .
RESULTS : Adenoviral transduction of endothelial cells with pAd - Survivin inhibited growth factor deprivation - or ceramide - induced apoptosis , reduced caspase - 3 and - 7 generation , and stabilized three - dimensional capillary networks in vitro .
Conversely , expression of pAd - T34A caused apoptosis in umbilical vein and dermal microvascular endothelial cells and resulted in caspase - 3 activity .
Cell death induced by survivin targeting exhibited the hallmarks of mitochondrial - dependent apoptosis with release of cytochrome c and loss of mitochondrial transmembrane potential and was suppressed in Apaf - 1 or caspase - 9 knockout mouse embryonic fibroblasts .
When injected in human breast cancer xenografts , pAd - T34A inhibited growth of established tumors and triggered tumor cell apoptosis in vivo .
This was associated with a approximately 60 % reduction in tumor - derived blood vessels by quantitative morphometry of CD31 - stained tumor areas , and appearance of endothelial cell apoptosis by internucleosomal DNA fragmentation in vivo .
CONCLUSIONS : Survivin functions as a novel upstream regulator of mitochondrial - dependent apoptosis , and molecular targeting of this pathway results in anticancer activity via a dual mechanism of induction of tumor cell apoptosis and suppression of angiogenesis .
The role of organ vascularization and lipoplex - serum initial contact in intravenous murine lipofection .
Following intravenous administration of cationic lipid - DNA complexes ( lipoplexes ) into mice , transfection ( lipofection ) occurs predominantly in the lungs .
This was attributed to high entrapment of lipoplexes in the extended lung vascular tree .
To determine whether lipofection in other organs could be enhanced by increasing the degree of vascularization , we used a transgenic mouse model with tissue - specific angiogenesis in liver .
Tail vein injection of N - ( 1 - ( 2 , 3 - dioleoyloxy ) propyl ) - N , N , N - trimethylammonium chloride ( DOTAP ) / cholesterol lipoplexes resulted in increased lipoplex entrapment in hypervascularized liver but did not boost luciferase expression , suggesting that lipoplex delivery is not a sufficient condition for efficient organ lipofection .
Because the intravenously injected lipoplexes migrated within seconds to lungs , we checked whether the effects of immediate contact with serum correlate with lung lipofection efficiency of different DOTAP - based formulations .
Under conditions mimicking the injection environment , the lipoplex - serum interaction was strongly dependent on helper lipid and ionic strength : lipoplexes prepared in 150 mM NaCl or lipoplexes with high ( greater than 33 mol % ) cholesterol were found to aggregate immediately .
This aggregation process was irreversible and was inversely correlated with the percentage of lung cells that took up lipoplexes and with the efficiency of lipofection .
No other structural changes in serum were observed for cholesterol - based lipoplexes .
Dioleoyl phosphatidylethanolamine - based lipoplexes were found to give low expression , apparently because of an immediate loss of integrity in serum , without lipid - DNA dissociation .
Proliferative diabetic retinopathy is associated with a low level of the natural ocular anti - angiogenic agent pigment epithelium - derived factor ( PEDF ) in aqueous humor .
a pilot study .
Retinopathy is the most common microvascular diabetes complication and represents a major threat to the eyesight .
The aim of this study was to address the role of pro - and anti - angiogenic molecules in diabetic retinopathy in the aqueous humor of the eye .
Aqueous humor was collected at cataract surgery from 19 diabetic patients and from 13 age - and sex - matched normoglycemic controls .
Levels of pro - angiogenic vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and angiogenic inhibitor pigment epithelium - derived factor ( PEDF ) were determined .
Angiogenic activity of the aqueous humor was quantified by measuring its effect on the migration of capillary endothelial cells .
In the aqueous fluid , VEGF levels were increased in diabetics ( mean values : 501 vs . 367 pg / ml ; p = 0 . 05 ) , compared to controls .
PEDF was found to be decreased in diabetics ( mean values : 2080 vs . 5780 ng / ml ; p = 0 . 04 ) compared to controls .
In seven diabetic patients with proliferative retinopathy , the most profound finding was a significant decrease of the PEDF level ( mean value : 237 ng / ml ) , whereas VEGF levels were comparable to diabetic patients without proliferation ( mean value : 3153 ; p = 0 . 003 ) .
Angiogenic activity in samples of patients from the control group was generally inhibitory due to PEDF , and inhibition was blocked by neutralizing antibodies to PEDF .
Likewise , in diabetics without proliferation , angiogenic activity was also blocked by antibodies to PEDF .
We will demonstrate here that the level of the natural ocular anti - angiogenic agent PEDF is inversely associated with proliferative retinopathy .
PEDF is an important negative regulator of angiogenic activity of aqueous humor .
Our data may have implications for the development of novel regimens for diabetic retinopathy .
Expression of osteoprotegerin and RANK ligand in breast cancer bone metastasis .
Bone destruction is primarily mediated by osteoclastic bone resorption , and cancer cells stimulate the formation and activation of osteoclasts next to metastatic foci .
Accumulating evidences indicate that receptor activator of NF - kB ligand ( RANKL ) is the ultimate extracellular mediator that stimulates osteoclast differentiation into mature osteoclasts .
In contrast , osteoprotegerin ( OPG ) inhibits osteoclast development .
In order to elucidate a mechanism for cancer - induced osteoclastogenesis , cells from a human breast cancer line , MDA - MB - 231 , were directly co - cultured with ST2 , MC3T3 - E1 , or with primary mouse calvarial cells .
Osteoclast - like cells and tartarate resistant acid phosphatase ( TRAP ) activities were then quantitated .
We examined these cell lines and samples from breast cancer by RT - PCR for the expressions of OPG and RANKL mRNA .
Compared to controls , co - culture of MDA - MB - 231 cells with stromal or osteoblastic cells induced an increase in number of osteoclasts and TRAP activities .
MDA - MB - 231 cells alone or breast cancer samples did not express RANKL mRNA .
However , co - culture of these cancer cells with stromal or osteoblastic cells induced RANKL mRNA expression and decreased OPG mRNA expression .
These experiments demonstrate that direct interactions between breast cancer and stromal or osteoblastic cells induce osteoclastogenesis in vitro through modulating RANKL expression .
Interleukin - 1 receptor antagonist inhibits ischaemic and excitotoxic neuronal damage in the rat .
Interleukin - 1 ( IL - 1 ) synthesis in the brain is stimulated by mechanical injury and IL - 1 mimics some effects of injury , such as gliosis and neovascularization .
We report that neuronal death resulting from focal cerebral ischaemia ( middle cerebral artery occlusion , 24 h ) is significantly inhibited ( by 50 % ) in rats injected with a recombinant IL - 1 receptor antagonist ( IL - 1ra , 10 micrograms , icv 30 min before and 10 min after ischaemia ) .
Excitotoxic damage due to striatal infusion of an NMDA - receptor agonist ( cis - 2 , 4 - methanoglutamate ) was also markedly inhibited ( 71 % ) by injection of the IL - 1ra .
These data indicate that endogenous IL - 1 is a mediator of ischaemic and excitotoxic brain damage , and that inhibitors of IL - 1 action may be of therapeutic value in the treatment of acute or chronic neuronal death .
Transcriptional and post - translation regulation of the Tie1 receptor by fluid shear stress changes in vascular endothelial cells .
The interaction between the vascular endothelium and hemodynamic forces ( and more specifically , fluid shear stress ) , induced by the flow of blood , plays a major role in vascular remodeling and in new blood vessels formation via a process termed arteriogenesis .
Tie1 is an orphan tyrosine kinase receptor expressed almost exclusively in endothelial cells and is required for normal vascular development and maintenance .
The present study demonstrates that Tie1 expression is rapidly down - regulated in endothelial cells exposed to shear stress , and more so to shear stress changes .
This down - regulation is accompanied by a rapid cleavage of Tie1 and binding of the cleaved Tie1 45 kDa endodomain to Tie2 .
The rapid cleavage of Tie1 is followed by a transcriptional down - regulation in response to shear stress .
The activity of the Tie1 promoter is suppressed by shear stress and by tumor necrosis factor alpha .
Shear stress - induced transcriptional suppression of Tie1 is mediated by a negative shear stress response element , localized in a region of 250 bp within the promoter .
The rapid down - regulation of Tie1 by shear stress changes and its rapid binding to Tie2 may be required for destabilization of endothelial cells in order to initiate the process of vascular restructuring .
Therapeutic angiogenesis : a complex problem requiring a sophisticated approach .
Blood and vascular disorders underlie a plethora of pathologic conditions and are the single most frequent cause of human disease .
Ischemia , involving restricted blood flow to tissues is the most common consequence of vessel dysfunction resulting in the disruption of oxygen and nutrient delivery and the accumulation of waste metabolites .
Cells cannot survive extended severe ischemia but may be able to adapt to a moderate condition where diffusion to and from bordering nonischemic regions sustains vital functions .
Under this condition , the secondary functions of effected cells are likely to be impaired , and a new metabolic equilibrium is established , determined by the level of cross - diffusion and degree of hypoxia .
In tissues with a normally high metabolic turnover such as skeletal and cardiac muscle , even mild ischemia causes hypoxia , acidosis , and depressed function ( contractility ) and eventually threatens myocyte viability and organ function .
Ischemic cardiac muscle is additionally vulnerable because reperfusion is essential for survival but reperfusion itself poses additional stress principally from increased production of free radicals during reoxygenation .
The latter effect is called reperfusion injury and can cause as much damage as the ischemia .
The treatment possibilities for ischemia - related vascular disease are limited .
Lipid / cholesterol - lowering agents , diet and antiplatelet adherence ( aspirin ) therapy may help slow the progression of vessel disease in some instances ; but surgical reconstruction may be the only option in advanced stages , and even this is not always an option .
An alternative and rather obvious strategy to treat ischemia is to activate endogenous angiogenic or arteriogenic pathways to stimulate revascularization of the tissue .
The feasibility of such a strategy has now been established through the results of studies over the past decade , and a new discipline called therapeutic angiogenesis has emerged .
This review focuses on the application of therapeutic angiogenesis for treating ischemic muscle disease and includes a critical evaluation of the parameters and limitations of current procedures .
The development of this technology has benefited from its application to both peripheral and coronary artery disease and results from both are reviewed here .
Expression , regulation , and function of IGF - 1 , IGF - 1R , and IGF - 1 binding proteins in blood vessels .
The vascular insulin - like growth factor ( IGF ) - 1 system includes the IGFs , the IGF - 1 receptor ( IGF - 1R ) , and multiple binding proteins .
This growth factor system exerts multiple physiologic effects on the vasculature through both endocrine and autocrine / paracrine mechanisms .
The effects of IGF - 1 are mediated principally through the IGF - 1R but are modulated by complex interactions with multiple IGF binding proteins that themselves are regulated by phosphorylation , proteolysis , polymerization , and cell or matrix association .
During the last decade , a significant body of evidence has accumulated , indicating that expression of the components of the IGF system are regulated by multiple factors , including growth factors , cytokines , lipoproteins , reactive oxygen species , and hemodynamic forces .
In addition , cross - talk between the IGF system and other growth factors and integrin receptors has been demonstrated .
There is accumulating evidence of a role for IGF - 1 in multiple vascular pathologies , including atherosclerosis , hypertension , restenosis , angiogenesis , and diabetic vascular disease .
This review will discuss the regulation of expression of IGF - 1 , IGF - 1R , and IGF binding proteins in the vasculature and summarize evidence implicating involvement of this system in vascular diseases .
Microvascular density and vascular endothelial growth factor immunoreactivity as predictors of regional lymph node metastasis from betel - associated oral squamous cell carcinoma .
PURPOSE : Neovascularization has profound effects on tumor growth and metastasis .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is a mitogen that acts exclusively on endothelial cells .
The roles of miscrovascularity density ( MVD ) and VEGF expression in the progression of oral squamous cell carcinoma ( OSCC ) have been controversial .
The purpose of the present study was to measure the MVD and VEGF expression in a cohort of patients with betel - associated OSCC and to evaluate for possible clinicopathologic correlations .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : The paraffin sections from 49 subjects with OSCC were subjected to immunohistochemical studies to measure the highest MVD ( h - MVD ) and cytoplasmic immunoreactivity of VEGF .
The findings in the tissue samples were analyzed with regard to the patients ' risk factors and clinical course .
RESULTS : The OSCC samples had an average h - MVD score of 27 . 7 / mm ( 2 ) .
VEGF immunoreactivity was positive in 75 . 5 % of samples .
Both h - MVD and VEGF immunoreactivity were statistically associated with lymph node metastasis ( P = . 012 and . 037 , respectively ) .
A marginally significant association was also noted between the h - MVD and patient survival ( P = . 056 ) .
The age and oral habits of patients , as well as the tumor site and size , did not appear to be correlated with h - MVD or VEGF immunoreactivity .
CONCLUSION : The data suggest that both h - MVD and VEGF immunoreactivity may be useful predictors for the progression of a subset of OSCC associated mostly with betel use .
Antiangiogenesis therapy might have a role in reducing regional metastasis .
Promotion of tumorigenesis by heterozygous disruption of the beclin 1 autophagy gene .
Malignant cells often display defects in autophagy , an evolutionarily conserved pathway for degrading long - lived proteins and cytoplasmic organelles .
However , as yet , there is no genetic evidence for a role of autophagy genes in tumor suppression .
The beclin 1 autophagy gene is monoallelically deleted in 40 - 75 % of cases of human sporadic breast , ovarian , and prostate cancer .
Therefore , we used a targeted mutant mouse model to test the hypothesis that monoallelic deletion of beclin 1 promotes tumorigenesis .
Here we show that heterozygous disruption of beclin 1 increases the frequency of spontaneous malignancies and accelerates the development of hepatitis B virus - induced premalignant lesions .
Molecular analyses of tumors in beclin 1 heterozygous mice show that the remaining wild - type allele is neither mutated nor silenced .
Furthermore , beclin 1 heterozygous disruption results in increased cellular proliferation and reduced autophagy in vivo .
These findings demonstrate that beclin 1 is a haplo - insufficient tumor - suppressor gene and provide genetic evidence that autophagy is a novel mechanism of cell - growth control and tumor suppression .
Thus , mutation of beclin 1 or other autophagy genes may contribute to the pathogenesis of human cancers .
Effects of dietary folate on ulcerative colitis - associated colorectal carcinogenesis in the interleukin 2 - and beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin - deficient mice .
Folate supplementation may reduce the risk of colorectal dysplasia and cancer in subjects with chronic ulcerative colitis ( UC ) .
The interleukin ( IL ) 2 - and beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin ( beta ( 2 ) m ) - deficient ( IL - 2 ( null ) x beta ( 2 ) m ( null ) ) mice spontaneously develop colon cancer in the setting of chronic UC .
This study investigated the effects of dietary folate on the development of UC - associated colon cancer in the IL - 2 ( null ) x beta ( 2 ) m ( null ) mice .
Weaning IL - 2 ( null ) x beta ( 2 ) m ( null ) mice were randomized to receive 0 ( deficient ; n = 40 ) , 2 ( basal requirement ; control ; n = 46 ) , or 8 ( supplemented ; n = 36 ) mg folate / kg diet for 32 weeks .
At necropsy , all macroscopic colonic tumors were identified and histologically classified as dysplasia or adenocarcinoma .
The incidence of high - grade lesions ( high - grade dysplasia / carcinoma in situ and invasive adenocarcinoma ) in the folate - supplemented group was 46 % lower than that in the control group ( 35 . 3 % versus 65 . 1 % , P = 0 . 009 ) .
The incidence of high - grade lesions in the folate - deficient group was also 49 % lower than that in the control group ( 33 . 3 % versus 65 . 1 % , P = 0 . 007 ) .
The higher mortality rate in the folate - deficient group compared with the other two groups ( 25 % versus 6 . 5 % and 5 . 6 % , P < 0 . 02 ) partially accounted for the low incidence of high - grade lesions in this group .
These data indicate that dietary folate supplementation at 4x the basal dietary requirement significantly suppresses UC - associated colorectal carcinogenesis in the IL - 2 ( null ) x beta ( 2 ) m ( null ) mice .
These data also suggest that folate deficiency may inhibit colorectal carcinogenesis in chronic UC .
However , the high mortality observed in the folate - deficient group precludes a definitive conclusion concerning the effect of folate deficiency on UC - associated colorectal carcinogenesis in this model .
Effect of antitumor agents on cytotoxicity induction by sodium fluoride .
We have recently found that sodium fluoride ( NaF ) induced apoptotic cell death in tumor cell lines .
We investigated here whether 6 popular antitumor compounds modify the cytotoxic activity of NaF against human squamous cell carcinoma ( HSC - 2 ) and human promyelocytic leukemia ( HL - 60 ) cell lines .
Cytotoxic concentrations of cisplatin , etoposide , doxorubicin or peplomycin ( tentatively termed as Group I compounds ) , but not methotrexate and 5 - FU ( tentatively termed as Group II compounds ) , enhanced the cytotoxic activity of NaF .
NaF and Group I compounds induced internucleosomal DNA fragmentation in HL - 60 cells , whereas Group II compounds were inactive even in the presence of NaF .
Most Group I compounds except doxorubicin ( which induced DNA fragmentation less effectively than others ) activated caspase 3 more efficiently than Group II compounds .
Caspase 8 ( involved in non - mitochondrial extrinsic pathway ) and caspase 9 ( involved in mitochondrial intrinsic pathway ) were also activated , but to a much lesser extent .
NaF reduced the glucose consumption at early stage , possibly by inhibition of glycolysis , whereas cisplatin and etoposide reduced the glucose consumption at later stage , suggesting that early decline of glucose consumption is rather specific to NaF .
Morphogenesis of embryonic CNS vessels .
This chapter focuses on the morphology of blood vessel formation in and around the early central nervous system ( CNS , i . e . , brain and spinal cord ) of avian embryos .
We discuss cell lineages , proliferation and interactions of endothelial cells , pericytes and smooth muscle cells , and macrophages .
Due to space limitations , we can not review the molecular control of CNS angiogenesis , but refer the reader to other chapters in this book and to recent publications on the assembly of the vasculature ( 1 , 2 ) .
The candidate tumour suppressor protein ING4 regulates brain tumour growth and angiogenesis .
Gliomas are the most common primary tumours of the central nervous system , with nearly 15 , 000 diagnosed annually in the United States and a lethality approaching 80 % within the first year of glioblastoma diagnosis .
The marked induction of angiogenesis in glioblastomas suggests that it is a necessary part of malignant progression ; however , the precise molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of brain tumour growth and angiogenesis remain unresolved .
Here we report that a candidate tumour suppressor gene , ING4 , is involved in regulating brain tumour growth and angiogenesis .
Expression of ING4 is significantly reduced in gliomas as compared with normal human brain tissue , and the extent of reduction correlates with the progression from lower to higher grades of tumours .
In mice , xenografts of human glioblastoma U87MG , which has decreased expression of ING4 , grow significantly faster and have higher vascular volume fractions than control tumours .
We show that ING4 physically interacts with p65 ( RelA ) subunit of nuclear factor NF - kappaB , and that ING4 regulates brain tumour angiogenesis through transcriptional repression of NF - kappaB - responsive genes .
These results indicate that ING4 has an important role in brain tumour pathogenesis .
TGFbeta1 , back to the future : revisiting its role as a transforming growth factor .
TGFbeta1 was initially identified in culture media from transformed cells as part of a factor that could produce a transformed phenotype in a nontransformed cell line .
Subsequently this activity was separated into TGFbeta and TGFalpha an EGF receptor ligand .
With the discovery that TGFbeta1 was a potent growth inhibitor of epithelial cells , and the identification of inactivating mutations within the TGFbeta1 signaling pathway in cancers it became clear that TGFbeta1 signaling is a tumor suppressor pathway for early stages of cancer .
However many human carcinomas overexpress TGFbeta1 and this is associated with poor patient prognosis and increased frequency of metastasis .
Similar results have been obtained with tumor cell lines and experimental animal models .
Thus stage specific duality of function is the emerging paradigm for the role of TGFbeta1 in cancer .
This review will focus on the evidence for TGFbeta1 as a tumor promoting and metastasis factor and examine the biological and molecular basis for these effects .
It is proposed that the switch from tumor suppressor to oncogene reflects genetic or epigenetic alterations in signaling pathways in tumor cells that alter the readout from the TGFbeta1 pathway .
Role of thrombin in angiogenesis and tumor progression .
Clinical , laboratory , histopathological , and pharmacological evidence support the notion that the coagulation system , which is activated in most cancer patients , plays an important role in tumor biology .
Our laboratory has provided evidence that thrombin activates angiogenesis , a process which is essential in tumor growth and metastasis .
This event is independent of fibrin formation .
At the cellular level many actions of thrombin can contribute to activation of angiogenesis : ( 1 ) .
Thrombin decreases the ability of endothelial cells to attach to basement membrane proteins .
( 2 ) .
Thrombin greatly potentiates vascular endothelial growth factor - ( VEGF - ) induced endothelial cell proliferation .
This potentiation is accompanied by up - regulation of the expression of VEGF receptors ( kinase insert domain - containing receptor [ KDR ] and fms - like tyrosine kinase [ Flt - 1 ] ) .
( 3 ) .
Thrombin increases the mRNA and protein levels of alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) integrin and serves as a ligand to this receptor .
Furthermore , thrombin increases the secretion of VEGF and enhances the expression and protein synthesis of matrix metalloprotease - 9 and alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) integrin in human prostate cancer PC - 3 cells .
These results could explain the angiogenic and tumor - promoting effect of thrombin and provide the basis for development of thrombin receptor mimetics or antagonists for therapeutic application .
NIH3T3 transfectant containing human K - ras oncogene shows enhanced metastatic activity after in vivo tumor growth or co - culture with fibroblasts .
A clone of NIH3T3 transformant ( H - 3 ) , obtained by transfecting genomic DNA of a human colon carcinoma cell line , contains human K - ras oncogene and yields metastatic pulmonary nodules after intravenous injection of the cells into nude mice .
This metastatic ability was enhanced remarkably after in vivo tumor growth ( subcutaneous tumor formation in nude mice ) accompanied by increased mRNA expression and gene amplification of the human - derived K - ras oncogene , while it declined gradually as the passage number increased in vitro , with corresponding decreases of gene amplification and mRNA expression .
Six subclones were randomly selected from H - 3 cells which had been subcultured to passage 22 .
All of the clones in culture showed almost the same low level of metastatic ability and exhibited little K - ras oncogene amplification with correspondingly low mRNA expression .
However , after they formed tumors in nude mice , every clone acquired high metastatic ability and the gene amplification increased , with elevated mRNA expression .
These experimental facts indicated that acquisition of metastatic ability coupled with the function of K - ras oncogene was conditional in nature , being strongly affected by in vivo tumor circumstances .
The low metastatic and G - 418 - resistant H - 3 cells were co - cultured with BALB / c3T3 fibroblasts for 2 - 4 weeks .
After removal of fibroblasts by exposure to G - 418 , the tumor cells exhibited increased metastatic ability and human K - ras oncogene mRNA , suggesting an intimate interaction between H - 3 cells and fibroblasts influencing the function of transfected human K - ras oncogene .
Fibroblasts of the host animal may thus have an important role in generating enhanced metastatic activity of H - 3 cells .
Lactoferrin enhances Fas expression and apoptosis in the colon mucosa of azoxymethane - treated rats .
Bovine lactoferrin , a multifunctional glycoprotein , has been shown to strongly inhibit development of azoxymethane ( AOM ) - induced rat colon tumors .
Little , however , is known about the inhibitory mechanisms .
We have demonstrated recently that lactoferrin enhances the expression of a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor family , Fas , in the colon mucosa during both early and late stages of carcinogenesis .
Thus , Fas could be involved in bovine lactoferrin - mediated inhibition of tumor development .
To investigate this possibility , we studied the influence of bovine lactoferrin on Fas - mediated apoptosis with regard to expression of Fas , activation of caspase - 8 and caspase - 3 , and DNA fragmentation in the colon mucosa of AOM - treated rats .
Western blot analysis demonstrated a > 2 . 5 - fold increase in Fas protein expression , as well as elevation of the active forms of both caspase - 8 and caspase - 3 .
Immunohistochemical analysis revealed Fas - positive cells and apoptotic cells preferentially within the proximal colon region , clearly at the site of bovine lactoferrin - mediated tumor inhibition .
These results suggest that apoptosis caused by elevated expression of Fas is involved in chemoprevention by lactoferrin of colon carcinogenesis .
Dynein light chain 1 , a p21 - activated kinase 1 - interacting substrate , promotes cancerous phenotypes .
We identified dynein light chain 1 ( DLC1 ) as a physiologic substrate of p21 - activated kinase 1 ( Pak1 ) .
Pak1 - DLC1 interaction plays an essential role in cell survival , which depends on Pak1 ' s phosphorylation of DLC1 on Ser88 .
Pak1 associates with the complex of DLC1 and BimL , a proapoptotic BH3 - only protein , and phosphorylates both proteins .
Phosphorylation of BimL by Pak1 prevents it from interacting with and inactivation of Bcl - 2 , an antiapoptotic protein .
Overexpression of DLC1 but not DLC1 - Ser88Ala mutant promotes cancerous properties of breast cancer cells .
DLC1 protein level is elevated in more than 90 % of human breast tumors .
The regulation of cell survival functions by Pak1 - DLC1 interaction represents a novel mechanism by which a signaling kinase might regulate the cancerous phenotypes .
Matrix metalloproteinase activity and immunohistochemical profile of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 during human dermal wound healing .
Proteolytic activity is required for the turnover of the extracellular matrix during wound healing .
Matrix metalloproteinases can collectively cleave all components of the extracellular matrix , with the endogenous tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 regulating their activity .
Breast tissue taken at varying postoperative times ( n = 92 ) or during surgery ( controls , n = 17 ) , was used to investigate the temporal and spatial activity of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 during human wound healing .
Matrix metalloproteinase activity , determined using a quenched fluorescence substrate assay , increased during early healing ( 3 - 8 weeks ) compared to controls , and then decreased between 24 and 36 weeks after surgery ( p less than 0 . 05 until 24 weeks , Mann - Whitney U - test ) .
Immunohistochemistry scores for matrix metalloproteinase - 9 expression were significantly elevated compared to controls in scar endothelial cells and fibroblasts from 2 until 12 and 20 weeks , respectively .
Matrix metalloproteinase - 2 staining was observed exclusively in fibroblasts , reaching maximum levels 8 - 12 weeks after surgery , decreasing by 1 . 5 years but remaining significantly increased .
Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 staining was relatively sparse but was significantly increased until 8 weeks after surgery .
These results show that matrix metalloproteinases are present at elevated levels during early wound healing , when angiogenesis occurs , and suggest that matrix metalloproteinase - 9 may play a significant role .
The later expression of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 in fibroblasts suggests a role in extracellular matrix remodeling .
Convergence of p53 and TGF - beta signaling networks .
p53 is a protein with many talents .
One of the most fundamental is the ability to act as essential growth checkpoint that protects cells against cellular transformation .
p53 does so through the induction of genes leading to growth arrest or apoptosis .
Most of the studies focusing on the mechanisms of p53 activity have been performed in cultured cells upon treatment with well - established p53 - activating inputs , such as high doses of radiations , DNA - damaging drugs and activated oncogenes .
However , how the tumor suppressive functions of p53 become concerted with the extracellular cues arriving at the cell surface during tissue homeostasis , remains largely unknown .
Intriguingly , two recent papers have shed new light into this unexplored field , indicating that p53 plays a key role in TGF - beta - induced growth arrest and , unexpectedly , in the developmental effects of TGF - beta in early embryos .
Here we review and comment on these findings and on their implications for cancer biology .
Enhanced IGF - 1 expression improves smooth muscle cell engraftment after cell transplantation .
The functional benefit of cell transplantation after a myocardial infarction is diminished by early cell losses .
IGF - 1 enhances cell proliferation and survival .
We hypothesized that IGF - 1 - transfected smooth muscle cells ( SMCs ) would enhance cell survival and improve engraftment after cell transplantation .
The IGF - 1 gene was transfected into male SMCs and compared with SMCs transfected with a plasmid vector ( vector control ) and nontransfected SMCs ( cell control ) .
IGF - 1 mRNA ( n = 10 / group ) and protein levels ( n = 6 / group ) were higher ( P less than 0 . 05 for all groups ) at 3 , 7 , and 14 days compared with controls .
VEGF was also increased in parallel to enhanced IGF - 1 expression .
IGF - 1 - transfected cells demonstrated greater cell proliferation , stimulated angiogenesis , and decreased caspase - 3 activity after simulated ischemia and reperfusion ( P less than 0 . 05 for all groups compared with vector or cell controls ) .
A uniform left ventricular injury was produced in female rats using a cryoprobe .
Three weeks later , 2 x 10 ( 6 ) cells from three groups were implanted into the scar .
One week later , IGF - 1 - transfected SMCs had increased myocardial IGF - 1 and VEGF levels , increased Bcl2 expression , limited cell apoptosis , and enhanced vessel formation in the myocardial scar compared with the two control groups ( P less than 0 . 05 for all groups ) .
The proportion of SMCs surviving in the implanted region was greater ( P less than 0 . 05 ) in the IGF - 1 - transfected group than in the vector or cell controls .
Gene enhancement with IGF - 1 improved donor cell proliferation , survival , and engraftment after cell transplantation , perhaps mediated by enhanced angiogenesis and reduced apoptosis .
[ Altered expression of PTEN gene and LOH of its epigenetic microsatellite in gastric carcinoma ] .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the expression of PTEN and loss of heterozygosity ( LOH ) of its epigenetic microsatellite in gastric carcinoma and explore their roles in progression of gastric carcinoma .
METHODS : LOH of epigenetic microsatellites of PTEN ( D10S541 , D10S583 and D10S1687 ) in advanced gastric cancer was detected by PCR - SSCP .
Expression of PTEN mRNA and protein in normal gastric mucosa and gastric cancer was evaluated by RT - PCR and SABC immunohistochemistry , respectively .
The relationship between expression of PTEN mRNA and protein and lymph node metastasis or LOH of microsatellites was discussed .
RESULTS : LOH of D10S541 , D10S583 and D10S1687 was found in 37 . 5 % ( 21 / 56 ) of advanced gastric cancers .
The positive rates of PTEN mRNA expression were 80 . 4 % ( 45 / 56 ) , 45 . 5 % ( 5 / 11 ) and 32 . 1 % ( 18 / 56 ) in normal mucosa , early and advanced gastric carcinomas , respectively , while 78 . 6 % ( 44 / 56 ) , 44 . 5 % ( 5 / 11 ) and 28 . 6 % ( 16 / 56 ) at the protein level .
PTEN mRNA and protein were less frequently expressed in early and advanced gastric carcinomas than that in normal gastric mucosa ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
There was positive correlation between PTEN mRNA expression and LOH of microsatellites in advanced gastric carcinomas .
PTEN protein expression paralleled with its mRNA expression ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
The expression of PTEN mRNA and protein was negatively correlated with lymph node metastasis of advanced gastric carcinomas ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
CONCLUSION : Down - regulated expression of PTEN gene is found in different stages of gastric carcinoma , and is closely correlated with LOH of its epigenetic microsatellites , which probably is its underlying molecular mechanisms .
It suggests that altered PTEN gene contributes to tumorigenesis and progression of gastric carcinomas .
Granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor and interleukin - 3 enhance the incorporation of cytosine arabinoside into the DNA of leukemic blasts and the cytotoxic effect on clonogenic cells from patients with acute myeloid leukemia .
In the present study the effects of the 48 - hour administration of granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor ( GM - CSF ) ( 100 U / mL ) or interleukin - 3 ( IL - 3 ) ( 100 U / mL ) on the proliferative activity of leukemic cells and on the intracellular metabolism and cytotoxic efficacy of a subsequent 12 - hour application of cytosine arabinoside ( ara - C ) at doses of 0 . 1 , 1 . 0 , 10 . 0 , and 100 . 0 mumol / L were evaluated on bone marrow cells from 17 patients with acute myeloid leukemia .
After GM - CSF or IL - 3 , a 1 . 2 - to 2 . 4 - fold increase in S - phase cells was observed in nine of 14 GM - CSF and seven of 11 IL - 3 cases .
3H - Cytosine arabinoside incorporation into the DNA was enhanced 1 . 33 - to 18 . 3 - fold over respective controls in 14 of 17 patients .
While in control specimens are ara - C dose - dependent increase in 3H - ara - C uptake was accompanied by a corresponding rise in intracellular ara - C - 5 ' triphosphate ( ara - CTP ) levels , ara - CTP concentrations were not increased after GM - CSF or IL - 3 exposure , resulting in a higher ara - C to ara - CTP ratio over controls .
This finding may be explained by a stimulatory effect of GM - CSF and IL - 3 on ara - C phosphorylating enzymes and a more rapid incorporation of ara - CTP into the DNA of leukemic blasts .
These effects translated into a 2 . 2 - to 229 . 0 - fold increase in the cytotoxic activity of ara - C against clonogenic leukemic cells after GM - CSF or IL - 3 pretreatment .
Hence , GM - CSF and IL - 3 enhance the intracellular metabolism of ara - C and its incorporation into the DNA of leukemic cells leading to a higher antileukemic activity of ara - C on clonogenic leukemic cells ( CFU - L ) .
Silencing of monocarboxylate transporters via small interfering ribonucleic acid inhibits glycolysis and induces cell death in malignant glioma : an in vitro study .
OBJECTIVE : Dependence on glycolysis is a hallmark of malignant tumors .
As a consequence , these tumors generate more lactate , which is effluxed from cells by monocarboxylate transporters ( MCTs ) .
We hypothesized that 1 ) MCT expression in malignant tumors may differ from normal tissue in quantity , isoform , or both ; and 2 ) silencing MCT expression would induce intracellular acidification , resulting in decreased proliferation and / or increased cell death .
METHODS : We quantified expression of MCT isoforms in human glioblastoma multiforme and glioma - derived cells lines by Western blot analysis .
MCTs that were abundant or specific to glioma then were targeted in the model U - 87 MG glioma cell line via small interfering ribonucleic acid - mediated gene silencing and tested for inhibition of lactate efflux , intracellular pH changes , reduced proliferation , and / or induction of cell death .
RESULTS : MCT 1 and 2 were the primary isoforms expressed in human glioblastoma multiforme and glioma - derived cell lines .
In contrast , MCT 3 was the predominantly expressed isoform in normal brain .
Small interfering ribonucleic acid specific for MCT 1 and 2 reduced expression of these isoforms in U - 87 MG cells to barely detectable levels and reduced lactate efflux by 30 % individually and 85 % in combination , with a concomitant decrease of intracellular pH by 0 . 6 units ( a fourfold increase in intracellular H ( + ) ) .
Prolonged silencing of both MCTs reduced viability by 75 % individually and 92 % in combination , as measured by both phenotypic and flow cytometric analyses .
CONCLUSION : MCT targeting significantly reduced the viability of U - 87 MG cells mediated by both apoptosis and necrosis .
This indicates that the strategy may be a useful therapeutic avenue for treatment of patients with malignant glioma .
Hypoxia - responsive element - mediated soluble Tie2 vector exhibits an anti - angiogenic activity in vitro under hypoxic condition .
Hypoxia - inducible factor - 1 ( HIF - 1 ) is one of the key mammalian transcription factors and shows increased levels in both protein stability and intrinsic transcriptional activity during low oxygen tension .
Hypoxia - activated functional HIF - 1 protein binds to hypoxia - responsive elements ( HRE ) in the enhancers of several genes including VEGF , the major player in angiogenesis , and initiates their mRNA expression .
The molecular mechanisms regulating the gene expression under hypoxic conditions could increase the therapeutic window of tumor - specific delivery systems .
In this study , to examine hypoxia - specific production of anti - angiogenic therapeutic gene , we constructed 5 copies of HRE ( 5xHRE ) of human VEGF linked to soluble Tie2 ( sTie2 ) driven by minimal SV40 promoter ( 5xHRE / SV40 / sTie2 ) .
Our data showed that under hypoxia the secreted sTie2 selectively inhibited tube formation and migration capacities of endothelial cells in vitro .
Hence , we propose that the vector system , 5xHRE / SV40 / sTie2 , might be a useful tool for down - regulating tumor angiogenesis under hypoxic condition .
Proteome analysis of NIH3T3 cells transformed by activated Galpha12 : regulation of leukemia - associated protein SET .
Galpha ( 12 ) , the alpha - subunit of the G12 family of heterotrimeric G proteins is involved in the regulation of cell proliferation and neoplastic transformation .
GTPase - deficient , constitutively activated mutant of Galpha ( 12 ) ( Galpha ( 12 ) Q229L or Galpha ( 12 ) QL ) has been previously shown to induce oncogenic transformation of NIH3T3 cells promoting serum - and anchorage - independent growth .
Reduced growth - factor dependent , autonomous cell growth forms a critical defining point at which a normal cell turns into an oncogenic one .
To identify the underlying mechanism involved in such growth - factor / serum independent growth of Galpha ( 12 ) QL - transformed NIH3T3 , we carried out a two - dimensional differential proteome analysis of Galpha ( 12 ) QL - transformed NIH3T3 cells and cells expressing vector control .
This analysis revealed a total of 22 protein - spots whose expression was altered by more than 3 - folds .
Two of these spots were identified by MALDI - MS analysis as proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( PCNA ) and myeloid - leukemia - associated SET protein .
The increased expressions of these proteins in Galpha ( 12 ) QL cells were validated by immunoblot analysis .
Furthermore , transient transfection studies with NIH3T3 cells indicated that the expression of activated Galpha ( 12 ) readily increased the expression of SET protein by 24 h .
As SET has been previously reported to be an inhibitor of phosphatase PP2A , the nuclear phosphatase activity was monitored in cells expressing activated Galpha ( 12 ) .
Our results indicate that the nuclear phosphatase activity is inhibited by greater than 50 % in Galpha ( 12 ) QL cells compared to vector control cells .
Thus , our results from differential proteome analysis presented here report for the first time a role for SET in Galpha ( 12 ) - mediated signaling pathways and a role for Galpha ( 12 ) in the regulation of the leukemia - associated SET - protein expression .
Matrix metalloproteinase / tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinase phenotype identifies poor prognosis colorectal cancers .
PURPOSE : The matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) are a family of proteolytic enzymes involved in tumor invasion ; several individual members of which have been implicated in tumor prognosis .
These enzymes and their physiologic inhibitors , the tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases ( TIMPs ) , act in a coordinated manner to form an integrated system .
Therefore , to understand their role in tumor invasion , it is necessary to evaluate them collectively .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : In this study all of the major members of the matrix metalloproteinase ( MMP - 1 , MMP - 2 , MMP - 3 , MMP - 7 , MMP - 9 , MMP - 13 , MT1 - MMP and MT2 - MMP ) / tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase ( TIMP - 1 , TIMP - 2 , and TIMP - 3 ) system have been investigated by immunohistochemistry in a series ( n = 90 ) of stage III ( Dukes ' C ) colorectal cancers .
An immunohistochemical score based on the intensity of immunoreactivity and proportion of immunoreactive cells was established for each MMP and TIMP .
RESULTS : The MMP / TIMP profile defined by hierarchical cluster analysis of the immunohistochemical score identifies a distinct group of colorectal cancers with poor prognosis ( log - rank test , 12 . 22 , P = 0 . 0005 ) .
Multivariate analysis showed that this profile was independently the most significant prognostic factor ( P = 0 . 001 ) .
CONCLUSIONS : This study has identified that the MMP / TIMP profile is an independent indicator of poor prognosis in colorectal cancer .
2 - methoxyestradiol inhibits hypoxia - inducible factor 1alpha , tumor growth , and angiogenesis and augments paclitaxel efficacy in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
PURPOSE : Head and neck squamous cell carcinomas have been reported to overexpress hypoxia - inducible factor ( HIF ) - 1alpha , a transcription factor that promotes expression of angiogenesis factors and resistance to programmed and therapy - induced cell death .
2 - Methoxyestradiol ( 2ME2 ) is a natural compound with HIF - 1alpha inhibitory activity that is currently being evaluated in phase 1 and 2 clinical trials for advanced solid tumors and multiple myeloma .
To our knowledge , this is the first study to evaluate the effects of 2ME2 in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : In the present study , we investigated the effects of 2ME2 alone and in combination with paclitaxel , an active agent in recurrent or advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
RESULTS : 2ME2 exhibited antiproliferative and cytotoxic effects in a panel of five head and neck squamous cell carcinoma cell lines in the 0 . 5 to 10 micromol / L range , including induction of G2 - M blockade , caspase - 3 / 7 activation , and apoptosis at 48 hours .
2ME2 resulted in decreased nuclear HIF - 1alpha - binding activity and affected the expression of downstream genes , such as bid , a proapoptotic bcl - 2 family member , and vascular endothelial growth factor , a proangiogenic cytokine .
The up - regulation of Bid ( 57 . 5 % at 12 hours , P less than 0 . 0006 ) and inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor secretion ( 57 . 7 % at 24 hours , P less than 0 . 015 ; and 50 . 3 % at 48 hours , P less than 0 . 0006 ) could be partially attributed to the effects on HIF - 1alpha , because HIF - 1alpha small interfering RNAs produced similar effects .
Finally , in vivo , in a xenograft model of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma using UM - SCC - 11A cells , 2ME2 exhibited antitumor and antiangiogenic activity , as measured by CD31 immunostaining .
CONCLUSIONS : These results provide support for the use of 2ME2 in combination with paclitaxel for the treatment of recurrent or advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
HIF - 2alpha expression in human fetal paraganglia and neuroblastoma : relation to sympathetic differentiation , glucose deficiency , and hypoxia .
Solid tumors are frequently necrotic and hypoxic due to poor vascularization .
Tumor cells adapt to hypoxia by modulating their phenotype .
Key players in this process are the hypoxia - inducible factors ( HIF - 1alpha to 3alpha ) .
HIFs are also expressed during normal development ; for example , HIF - 2alpha is specifically expressed and appears to be involved in the development of the murine sympathetic nervous system ( SNS ) .
Here , we demonstrate that HIF - 2alpha protein is selectively present in human fetal week 8 . 5 SNS paraganglia .
Neuroblastoma is derived from SNS precursors .
In a subset of neuroblastomas , a spontaneous neuronal to neuroendocrine differentiation occurs in areas adjacent to necrotic zones .
As HIF - 2alpha activity has been associated not only with hypoxic but also with hypoglycemic conditions , we have investigated putative effects of hypoxia , glucose depletion , and HIF - 2alpha on the neuroblastoma phenotype .
HIF - 2alpha was detected in hypoxic and in well - oxygenized neuroblastoma cells and tissue , presumably reflecting their embryonic features .
With regard to differentiation , hypoxic cells lost their neuronal / neuroendocrine features and gained marker gene expression associated with an immature , neural crest - like phenotype .
Low glucose potentiated the effect of hypoxia .
These findings suggest that poorly vascularized neuroblastomas become immature and maintain a more aggressive phenotype , which possibly could involve a sustained stabilization and activation of HIF - 2alpha .
Expression and purification of the catalytic domain of human vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 for inhibitor screening .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , an endothelial cell - specific mitogen , can act in tumor - induced angiogenesis by binding to specific receptors on the surface of endothelial cells .
One such receptor , VEGFR - 2 / KDR , plays a key role in VEGF - induced angiogenesis .
Here , we expressed the catalytic domain of VEGFR - 2 as a soluble active kinase using Bac - to - Bac expression system , and investigated correlations between VEGFR - 2 activity and enzyme concentration , ATP concentration , substrate concentration and divalent cation type .
We used these data to establish a convenient , effective and non - radioactive ELISA screening technique for the identification and evaluation of potential inhibitors for VEGFR - 2 kinase .
We screened 200 RTK target - based compounds and identified one ( TKI - 31 ) that potently inhibited VEGFR - 2 kinase activity ( IC50 = 0 . 596 microM ) .
Treatment of NIH3T3 / KDR cells with TKI - 31 blocked VEGF - induced phosphorylation of KDR in a dose - dependent manner .
Moreover , TKI - 31 dose - dependently suppressed HUVEC tube formation .
Thus , we herein report a novel , efficient method for identifying VEGFR - 2 kinase inhibitors and introduce one , TKI - 31 , that may prove to be a useful new angiogenesis inhibitor .
Role of thrombogenic factors in the development of atherosclerosis .
Hemostatic factors play a crucial role in generating thrombotic plugs at sites of vascular damage ( atherothrombosis ) .
However , whether hemostatic factors contribute directly or indirectly to the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis remains uncertain .
Autopsy studies have revealed that intimal thickening represents the first stage of atherosclerosis and that lipid - rich plaque arises from such lesions .
Several factors contribute to the start of intimal thickening .
Platelets release several growth factors and bioactive agents that play a central role in development of not only thrombus but also of intimal thickening .
We have been investigating which coagulation factors simultaneously , or subsequently with platelet aggregation , participate in thrombus formation .
Tissue factor ( TF ) is an essential initiator of blood coagulation that is expressed in various stages of atherosclerotic lesions in humans and other animals .
Factors including thrombin and fibrin , which are downstream of the coagulation cascade activated by TF , also contribute to atherosclerosis .
TF is involved in cell migration , embryogenesis and angiogenesis .
Thus TF , in addition to factors downstream of the coagulation cascade and the protease - activated receptor 2 activation system , would be a multifactorial regulator of atherogenesis .
Angiogenin is up - regulated in the nucleus and cytoplasm in human primary breast carcinoma and is associated with markers of hypoxia but not survival .
Angiogenin , a 14 . 2 kD polypeptide that was originally noted for its angiogenic activity , is now increasingly recognized to have a multiplicity of biological roles in both physiological and pathological conditions .
In breast cancer , there are conflicting studies questioning the role of angiogenin .
Here , the pattern of expression of angiogenin during the transition from normal breast tissue to ductal carcinoma in situ and invasive carcinoma is reported together with the correlates between the level of angiogenin in 239 invasive carcinomas and standard clinicopathological parameters , hypoxia - inducible factor ( HIF ) - 1 alpha and the HIF - 1 alpha target gene DEC - 1 .
This study shows that angiogenin expression is up - regulated in the cytoplasmic and nuclear compartments in in situ carcinoma and invasive carcinoma compared with normal breast tissue and that angiogenin expression in invasive carcinomas is significantly positively associated with high tumour grade ( p = 0 . 03 ) , positive oestrogen receptor ( ER ) status ( p = 0 . 01 ) , HIF - 1 alpha ( p = 0 . 001 ) and DEC 1 ( p = 0 . 001 ) , but not with patient age ( p = 0 . 8 ) , tumour size ( p = 0 . 25 ) , lymph node status ( p = 0 . 69 ) , epidermal growth factor receptor ( p = 0 . 56 ) or microvessel density ( p = 0 . 32 ) .
No difference in relapse - free ( p = 0 . 26 ) or overall ( p = 0 . 63 ) survival was observed in patients stratified by angiogenin expression .
This study suggests that angiogenin may be important in breast cancer progression and that , through its relationship with ER , it may be a target for tamoxifen .
Hereditary paraganglioma / pheochromocytoma and inherited succinate dehydrogenase deficiency .
Mitochondrial complex II , or succinate dehydrogenase , is a key enzymatic complex involved in both the tricarboxylic acid ( TCA ) cycle and oxidative phosphorylation as part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain .
Germline succinate dehydrogenase subunit A ( SDHA ) mutations have been reported in a few patients with a classical mitochondrial neurodegenerative disease .
Mutations in the genes encoding the three other succinate dehydrogenase subunits ( SDHB , SDHC and SDHD ) have been identified in patients affected by familial or ' apparently sporadic ' paraganglioma and / or pheochromocytoma , an autosomal inherited cancer - susceptibility syndrome .
These discoveries have dramatically changed the work - up and genetic counseling of patients and families with paragangliomas and / or pheochromocytomas .
The subsequent identification of germline mutations in the gene encoding fumarase - - another TCA cycle enzyme - - in a new hereditary form of susceptibility to renal , uterine and cutaneous tumors has highlighted the potential role of the TCA cycle and , more generally , of the mitochondria in cancer .
Mouse p10 , an alternative spliced form of p15INK4b , inhibits cell cycle progression and malignant transformation .
The INK4 family of proteins negatively regulates cell cycle progression at the G ( 1 ) - S transition by inhibiting cyclin - dependent kinases .
Two of these cell cycle inhibitors , p16 ( INK4A ) and p15 ( INK4B ) , have tumor suppressor activities and are inactivated in human cancer .
Interestingly , both INK4 genes express alternative splicing variants .
In addition to p16 ( INK4A ) , the INK4A locus encodes a splice variant , termed p12 - - specifically expressed in human pancreas - - and ARF , a protein encoded by an alternative reading frame that acts as a tumor suppressor through the p53 pathway .
Similarly , the human INK4B locus encodes the p15 ( INK4B ) tumor suppressor and one alternatively spliced form , termed as p10 .
We show here that p10 , which arises from the use of an alternative splice donor site within intron 1 , is conserved in the mouse genome and is widely expressed in mouse tissues .
Similarly to mouse p15 ( INK4B ) , p10 expression is also induced by oncogenic insults and transforming growth factor - beta treatment and acts as a cell cycle inhibitor .
Importantly , we show that mouse p10 is able to induce cell cycle arrest in a p53 - dependent manner .
We also show that mouse p10 is able to inhibit foci formation and anchorage - independent growth in wild - type mouse embryonic fibroblasts , and that these antitransforming properties of mouse p10 are also p53 - dependent .
These results indicate that the INK4B locus , similarly to INK4A - ARF , harbors two different splicing variants that can be involved in the regulation of both the p53 and retinoblastoma pathways , the two major molecular pathways in tumor suppression .
Rofecoxib as adjunctive therapy for haemophilic arthropathy .
Joint haemorrhage and subsequent haemophilic arthropathy are significant complications in haemophilia .
The pathophysiology involves inflammation and angiogenesis .
Cyclooxygenase - 2 ( COX - 2 ) inhibitors are anti - inflammatory agents , which have potent anti - inflammatory , anti - angiogenic and analgesic properties yet do not affect platelet function in the manner of traditional non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs .
These properties make such agents potentially useful as adjunctive therapy in haemophilia .
There is only one prior report describing rofecoxib treatment in a single haemophilia patient .
Our objectives were to determine the safety and efficacy of rofecoxib in treating acute haemarthrosis , chronic synovitis , target joints and pain .
We conducted a retrospective medical record review of patients treated with rofecoxib for acute haemarthrosis , chronic synovitis , target joint or pain .
The safety and efficacy of rofecoxib treatment were determined based on subjective patient reports and physical examinations during follow - up clinic visits .
A total of 28 patients between 3 and 37 years of age were treated for a total of 42 courses of rofecoxib treatment .
All courses were evaluated for safety and 31 for efficacy .
Rofecoxib was used for eight acute haemarthrosis , four target joints , seven cases of synovitis and 12 episodes of pain .
Efficacy was demonstrated particularly for chronic synovitis and pain and no serious adverse events occurred .
This is the largest study to date evaluating COX - 2 inhibitors as adjunctive therapy in haemophilia and suggests that these agents may be an important adjunctive therapy in the management of haemophilia .
Thalidomide and angiostatin inhibit tumor growth in a murine xenograft model of human cervical cancer .
OBJECTIVE : To determine the impact of thalidomide and angiostatin on tumor growth , angiogenesis , and apoptosis in a xenograft model of cervical cancer .
METHODS : Human umbilical endothelial cells were treated with angiostatin or thalidomide and bFGF - induced proliferation was assessed with the MTT assay .
Human cervical cancer cells ( CaSki and SiHa ) were injected into the flanks of nude mice .
After tumors developed , mice were treated with angiostatin 20 mg / kg / day or thalidomide 200 mg / kg / day for 30 days .
Fractional tumor growth was determined and immunohistochemical analysis of tumors was used to determine degree of angiogenesis .
TUNEL assay was used to assess apoptosis .
RESULTS : Angiostatin inhibited endothelial cell proliferation by 50 - 60 % .
Thalidomide had no direct effect on endothelial cells .
Angiostatin and thalidomide both inhibited tumor growth by about 55 % .
We found no additive or synergistic effect when the two agents were combined .
Both agents inhibited angiogenesis and induced apoptosis when compared to tumors from control animals .
CONCLUSIONS : Angiostatin and thalidomide inhibit tumor growth , angiogenesis , and induce apoptosis in this xenograft model of cervical cancer .
Therapeutic Electromagnetic Field ( TEMF ) and gamma irradiation on human breast cancer xenograft growth , angiogenesis and metastasis .
BACKGROUND : The effects of a rectified semi - sinewave signal ( 15 mT amplitude , 120 pulses per second , EMF Therapeutics , Inc . ) ( TEMF ) alone and in combination with gamma irradiation ( IR ) therapy in nude mice bearing a human MDA MB231 breast cancer xenograft were tested .
Green fluorescence protein transfected cancer cells were injected into the mammary fat pad of young female mice .
Six weeks later , mice were randomly divided into four treatment groups : untreated controls ; 10 minute daily TEMF ; 200 cGy of IR every other day ( total 800 cGy ) ; IR plus daily TEMF .
Some mice in each group were euthanized 24 hours after the end of IR .
TEMF treatment continued for 3 additional weeks .
Tumor sections were stained for : endothelial cells with CD31 and PAS or hypoxia inducible factor 1alpha ( HIF ) .
RESULTS : Most tumors less than 35 mm3 were white but tumors greater than 35 mm3 were pink and had a vascularized capsule .
The cortex within 100 microns of the capsule had little vascularization .
Blood vessels , capillaries , and endothelial pseudopods were found at greater than 100 microns from the capsule ( subcortex ) .
Tumors greater than 35 mm3 treated with IR 24 hours previously or with TEMF had decreased blood vessels in the subcortex and more endothelial pseudopods projecting into hypoxic , HIF positive areas than tumors from the control group .
Mice that received either IR or TEMF had significantly fewer lung metastatic sites and slower tumor growth than did untreated mice .
No harmful side effects were attributed to TEMF .
CONCLUSION : TEMF therapy provided a safe means for retarding tumor vascularization , growth and metastasis .
The threshold level of adenomatous polyposis coli protein for mouse intestinal tumorigenesis .
The adenomatous polyposis coli ( APC ) gene , whose mutations are responsible for familial adenomatous polyposis , is a major negative controller of the Wnt / beta - catenin pathway .
To investigate the dose - dependent effects of APC protein in suppressing intestinal tumorigenesis , we constructed mutant mice carrying hypomorphic Apc alleles Apc ( neoR ) and Apc ( neoF ) whose expression levels were reduced to 20 % and 10 % of the wild type , respectively .
Although both hypomorphic heterozygotes developed intestinal polyps , tumor multiplicities were much lower than that in Apc ( Delta716 ) mice , heterozygotes of an Apc null allele .
Like in Apc ( Delta716 ) mice , loss of the wild - type Apc allele was confirmed for all polyps examined in the Apc ( neoR ) and Apc ( neoF ) mice .
In the embryonic stem cells homozygous for these hypomorphic Apc alleles , the level of the APC protein was inversely correlated with both the beta - catenin accumulation and beta - catenin / T - cell factor transcriptional activity .
These results suggest that the reduced APC protein level increases intestinal polyp multiplicity through quantitative stimulation of the beta - catenin / T - cell factor transcription .
We further estimated the threshold of APC protein level that forms one polyp per mouse as approximately 15 % of the wild type .
These results also suggest therapeutic implications concerning Wnt signaling inhibitors .
The merits of vascular targeting for gynecologic malignancies .
Neovascularization is an early and critical step in tumor development and progression .
Tumor vessels are distinct from their normal counterparts morphologically as well as at a molecular level .
Recent studies on factors involved in tumor vascular development have identified new therapeutic targets for inhibiting tumor neovascularization and thus tumor progression .
However , the process of tumor blood vessel formation is complex , and each tumor exhibits unique features in its vasculature .
An understanding of the relative contribution of various pathways in the development of tumor vasculature is critical for developing effective and selective therapeutic approaches .
Several such agents are currently in clinical trials , and many others are under development .
In this review , the mechanisms and factors involved in tumor blood vessel formation are discussed .
In addition , selected novel classes of antivascular therapies , including those targeting tumor endothelial cells and other components of the tumor vasculature , are summarized .
Normal and transforming functions of RUNX1 : a perspective .
Converging studies from many investigators indicate that RUNX1 has a critical role in the correct maintenance of essential cellular functions during embryonic development and after birth .
The discovery that this gene is also frequently mutated in human leukemia has increased the interest in the role that RUNX1 plays in both normal and transforming pathways .
Here , we provide an overview of the many roles of RUNX1 in hematopoietic self - renewal and differentiation and summarize the information that is currently available on the many mechanisms of RUNX1 deregulation in human leukemia .
Domain 5 of cleaved high molecular weight kininogen inhibits endothelial cell migration through Akt .
Domain 5 ( D5 ) of cleaved high molecular weight kininogen ( HKa ) inhibits angiogenesis in vivo and endothelial cell migration in vitro , but the cell signaling pathways involved in HKa and D5 inhibition of endothelial cell migration are incompletely delineated .
This study examines the mechanism of HKa and D5 inhibition of two potent stimulators of endothelial cell migration , sphingosine 1 - phosphate ( S1P ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , that act through the P13 - kinase - Akt signaling pathway .
HKa and D5 inhibit bovine pulmonary artery endothelial cell ( BPAE ) or human umbilical vein endothelial cell chemotaxis in the modified - Boyden chamber in response toVEGF or S1P .
The inhibition of migration by HKa is reversed by antibodies to urokinase - type plasminogen activator receptor .
Both HKa and D5 decrease the speed of BPAE cell migration and alter the morphology in live , time - lapse microscopy after stimulation with S1P or VEGF .
HKa and D5 reduce the localization of paxillin to the focal adhesions after S1P and VEGF stimulation .
To better understand the intracellular signaling pathways , we examined the effect of HKa on the phosphorylation of Akt and its downstream effector , GSK - 3alpha HKa and D5 inhibit phosphorylation of Akt and GSK - 3alpha after stimulation withVEGF and S1P .
Inhibitors of Akt and P13 - kinase , the upstream activator of Akt , block endothelial cell migration and disrupt paxillin localization to the focal adhesions after stimulation with VEGF and S1P .
Therefore we suggest that HKa through its D5 domain alters P13 - kinase - Akt signaling to inhibit endothelial cell migration through alterations in the focal adhesions .
Effect of thalidomide affecting VEGF secretion , cell migration , adhesion and capillary tube formation of human endothelial EA . hy 926 cells .
Angiogenesis , new blood vessel formation , is a multistep process , precisely regulated by pro - angiogenic cytokines , which stimulate endothelial cells to migrate , proliferate and differentiate to form new capillary microvessels .
Excessive vascular development and blood vessel remodeling appears in psoriasis , rheumatoid arthritis , diabetic retinopathy and solid tumors formation .
Thalidomide [ alpha - ( N - phthalimido ) - glutarimide ] is known to be a potent inhibitor of angiogenesis , but the mechanism of its inhibitory action remains unclear .
The aim of the study was to investigate the potential influence of thalidomide on the several steps of angiogenesis , using in vitro models .
We have evaluated the effect of thalidomide on VEGF secretion , cell migration , adhesion as well as in capillary formation of human endothelial cell line EA . hy 926 .
Thalidomide at the concentrations of 0 . 01 microM and 10 microM inhibited VEGF secretion into supernatants , decreased the number of formed capillary tubes and increased cell adhesion to collagen .
Administration of thalidomide at the concentration of 0 . 01 microM increased cell migration , while at 10 microM , it decreased cell migration .
Thalidomide in concentrations from 0 . 1 microM to 10 microM did not change cell proliferation of 72 - h cell cultures .
We conclude that anti - angiogenic action of thalidomide is due to direct inhibitory action on VEGF secretion and capillary microvessel formation as well as immunomodulatory influence on EA . hy 926 cells migration and adhesion .
Regulation of skin microvasculature angiogenesis , cell migration , and permeability by a specific inhibitor of PKCalpha .
Activation of protein kinase C ( PKC ) induces phenotypic changes in the morphology of microvascular endothelial cells that affect major functions of the microvasculature .
These functions include the first stages of sprouting in angiogenesis , cell migration following wounding , and vascular permeability .
The specific isoform ( s ) of PKC responsible for each of these changes has not been previously identified .
In this study , we used two inflammatory agents , IL - 1beta and phorbol myristic acetate , to activate PKC isozymes and specific inhibitors of PKCalpha ( Go6976 ) and PKCbeta ( hispidin ) to distinguish how each of these isoform ( s ) controls angiogenesis , wound healing , and permeability .
In all cases , only inhibition of PKCalpha inhibited each of these functions when compared to the inhibition of PKCbeta .
Additional analysis of the mechanism of action of Go6976 ( RT - PCR , Western blots , and immunohistochemistry ) of the changes in the phosphorylated and nonphosphorylated forms of PKCalpha in the cell membrane and cytoplasm confirmed the specificity of PKCalpha inhibition by Go6976 .
These studies therefore indicate a specific and a regulatory role of the PKCalpha isoform in three major endothelial cell functions that are important in the maintenance of microvascular homeostasis .
The differential regulation of human telomerase reverse transcriptase and vascular endothelial growth factor may contribute to the clinically more aggressive behavior of p63 - positive breast carcinomas .
p63 , a p53 homologue , is a myoepithelial cell marker in the normal mammary gland but p63 - positive neoplastic cells may be found in up to 11 % of invasive breast carcinomas .
This study aims to verify the relationship between p63 expression and several clinicopathological features and tumor markers of clinical significance in breast pathology including key regulators of the cell cycle , oncogenes , apoptosis - related proteins , metalloproteinases and their inhibitors .
Immunohistochemistry with 27 primary antibodies was performed in 100 formalin - fixed paraffin - embedded samples of invasive ductal carcinomas .
p63 - positive cells were found in 16 % of carcinomas .
p63 - positive carcinomas were poorly differentiated , hormone receptor - negative neoplasms with a high proliferation rate .
p63 also correlated with advanced pathological stage , tumor size , and the expression of human telomerase reverse transcriptase ( hTERT ) , tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase 1 ( TIMP1 ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
The expression of TIMP1 suggests that the anti - proteolytic stimuli may be preponderant in p63 - positive carcinomas .
hTERT activity is associated with nodal metastases and cellular proliferation .
VEGF regulates angiogenesis , which is also a fundamental event in the process of tumor growth and metastatic dissemination .
Thus , the differential regulation of hTERT and VEGF in p63 - positive breast carcinomas may contribute to the clinically more aggressive behavior of these neoplasms .
Regulation of tumor angiogenesis by thrombospondin - 1 .
Angiogenesis plays a critical role in the growth and metastasis of tumors .
Thrombospondin - 1 ( TSP - 1 ) is a potent angiogenesis inhibitor , and down - regulation of TSP - 1 has been suggested to alter tumor growth by modulating angiogenesis in a variety of tumor types .
Expression of TSP - 1 is up - regulated by the tumor suppressor gene , p53 , and down - regulated by oncogenes such as Myc and Ras .
TSP - 1 inhibits angiogenesis by inhibiting endothelial cell migration and proliferation and by inducing apoptosis .
In addition , activation of transforming growth factor beta ( TGF - beta ) by TSP - 1 plays a crucial role in the regulation of tumor progression .
An understanding of the molecular basis of TSP - 1 - mediated inhibition of angiogenesis and tumor progression will aid in the development of novel therapeutics for the treatment of cancer .
Regulation of the composition of the extracellular matrix by low density lipoprotein receptor - related protein - 1 : activities based on regulation of mRNA expression .
Low density lipoprotein receptor - related protein - 1 ( LRP - 1 ) is a catabolic receptor for extracellular matrix ( ECM ) structural proteins and for proteins that bind to ECM .
LRP - 1 also is implicated in integrin maturation .
In this study , we applied a proteomics strategy to identify novel proteins involved in ECM modeling that are regulated by LRP - 1 .
We show that LRP - 1 deficiency in murine embryonic fibroblasts ( MEFs ) is associated with increased levels of type III collagen and pigment epithelium - derived factor , which accumulate in the substratum surrounding cells .
The collagen receptor , uPAR - AP / Endo - 180 , is also increased in LRP - 1 - deficient MEFs .
Human LRP - 1 reversed the changes in protein expression associated with LRP - 1 deficiency ; however , the endocytic activity of LRP - 1 was not involved .
Instead , regulation occurred at the mRNA level .
Inhibition of c - Jun amino - terminal kinase ( JNK ) blocked type III collagen expression in LRP - 1 - deficient MEFs , suggesting regulation of JNK activity as a mechanism by which LRP - 1 controls mRNA expression .
The ability of LRP - 1 to regulate expression of the factors identified here suggests a role for LRP - 1 in determining blood vessel structure and in angiogenesis .
L - Carnitine ameliorates methotrexate - induced oxidative organ injury and inhibits leukocyte death .
Methotrexate ( MTX ) , a folic acid antagonist widely used for the treatment of a variety of tumors and inflammatory diseases , affects normal tissues that have a high rate of proliferation , including the hematopoietic cells of the bone marrow and the gastrointestinal mucosal cells .
To elucidate the role of free radicals and leukocytes in MTX - induced oxidative organ damage and the putative protective effect of L - carnitine ( L - Car ) , Wistar albino rats were administered a single dose of MTX ( 20 mg / kg ) followed by either saline or L - Car ( 500 mg / kg ) for 5 days .
After decapitation of the rats , trunk blood was obtained , and the ileum , liver , and kidney were removed for histological examination and for the measurement of malondialdehyde ( MDA ) and glutathione ( GSH ) levels , myeloperoxidase ( MPO ) activity , and collagen content .
Our results showed that MTX administration increased the MDA and MPO activities and collagen content and decreased GSH levels in all tissues , while these alterations were reversed in L - Car - treated group .
The elevated serum TNF - alpha level observed following MTX treatment was depressed with L - Car .
The oxidative burst of neutrophils stimulated by Annexin V was reduced in the saline - treated MTX group , while L - Car abolished this inhibition .
Similarly , flow cytometric measurements revealed that leukocyte apoptosis was increased in MTX - treated animals , while L - Car reversed these effects .
Severe degeneration of the intestinal mucosa , liver parenchyma , and glomerular and tubular epithelium observed in the saline - treated MTX group was improved by L - Car treatment .
These results suggest that L - Car , possibly via its free radical scavenging and antioxidant properties , ameliorates MTX - induced oxidative organ injury and inhibits leukocyte apoptosis .
Thus , supplementation with L - Carnitine as an adjuvant therapy may be promising in alleviating the systemic side - effects of chemotherapeutics .
Pericytes limit tumor cell metastasis .
Previously we observed that neural cell adhesion molecule ( NCAM ) deficiency in beta tumor cells facilitates metastasis into distant organs and local lymph nodes .
Here , we show that NCAM - deficient beta cell tumors grew leaky blood vessels with perturbed pericyte - endothelial cell - cell interactions and deficient perivascular deposition of ECM components .
Conversely , tumor cell expression of NCAM in a fibrosarcoma model ( T241 ) improved pericyte recruitment and increased perivascular deposition of ECM molecules .
Together , these findings suggest that NCAM may limit tumor cell metastasis by stabilizing the microvessel wall .
To directly address whether pericyte dysfunction increases the metastatic potential of solid tumors , we studied beta cell tumorigenesis in primary pericyte - deficient Pdgfb ( ret / ret ) mice .
This resulted in beta tumor cell metastases in distant organs and local lymph nodes , demonstrating a role for pericytes in limiting tumor cell metastasis .
These data support a new model for how tumor cells trigger metastasis by perturbing pericyte - endothelial cell - cell interactions .
NF - kappaB and IKK as therapeutic targets in cancer .
The transcription factor NF - kappaB and associated regulatory factors ( including IkappaB kinase subunits and the IkappaB family member Bcl - 3 ) are strongly implicated in a variety of hematologic and solid tumor malignancies .
A role for NF - kappaB in cancer cells appears to involve regulation of cell proliferation , control of apoptosis , promotion of angiogenesis , and stimulation of invasion / metastasis .
Consistent with a role for NF - kappaB in oncogenesis are observations that inhibition of NF - kappaB alone or in combination with cancer therapies leads to tumor cell death or growth inhibition .
However , other experimental data indicate that NF - kappaB can play a tumor suppressor role in certain settings and that it can be important in promoting an apoptotic signal downstream of certain cancer therapy regimens .
In order to appropriately move NF - kappaB inhibitors in the clinic , thorough approaches must be initiated to determine the molecular mechanisms that dictate the complexity of oncologic and therapeutic outcomes that are controlled by NF - kappaB .
Runx2 and MYC collaborate in lymphoma development by suppressing apoptotic and growth arrest pathways in vivo .
Members of the Runx and MYC families have been implicated as collaborating oncogenes .
The mechanism of this potent collaboration is elucidated in this study of Runx2 / MYC mice .
As shown previously , ectopic expression of Runx2 in the thymus leads to a preneoplastic state defined by an accumulation of cells with an immature phenotype and a low proliferative rate .
We now show that c - MYC overexpression is sufficient to rescue proliferation and to release the differentiation block imposed by Runx2 .
Analysis of Runx2 - expressing lymphomas reveals a consistently low rate of apoptosis , in contrast to lymphomas of MYC mice which are often highly apoptotic .
The low apoptosis phenotype is dominant in Runx2 / MYC tumors , indicating that Runx2 confers a potent survival advantage to MYC - expressing tumor cells .
The role of the p53 pathway in Runx2 / MYC tumors was explored on a p53 heterozygote background .
Surprisingly , functional p53 was retained in vivo , even after transplantation , whereas explanted tumor cells displayed rapid allele loss in vitro .
Furthermore , the Runx2 / MYC combination overcomes the requirement for genetic inactivation of the p53 pathway in vivo .
Inhibition of the mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) by rapamycin increases chemosensitivity of CaSki cells to paclitaxel .
Paclitaxel , a potent anti - neoplastic agent , has been found to be effective against several tumours , including cervical cancer .
However , the exact mechanism underlying the cytotoxic effects of pacitaxel , especially in the survival - signalling pathway , is poorly understood .
The aim of this study was to investigate the molecular pathway of the cytotoxic effect of paclitaxel in human cervical cancer cell lines .
Four human cervical cancer cell lines were treated for 24 h with various concentration of paclitaxel , and the sensitivity was analysed by an MTT assay .
The cell cycle progression and sub - G1 population were analysed by flow cytometry .
Apoptosis was further measured by DNA fragmentation and microscope examination .
The protein expression was determined by Western blot analysis .
Our results showed that HeLa cells demonstrated the highest sensitivity to paclitaxel , whereas CaSki cells showed the lowest .
In cervical cancer cells , paclitaxel induced apoptosis through an intrinsic pathway with prior G2 / M arrest .
In addition , we showed that paclitaxel downregulated the phosphorylation of Akt in both HeLa and CaSki cells .
Interestingly , in CaSki cells , which were more suggestive of a resistant phenotype , paclitaxel induced the activation of mTOR as a downstream target of Akt .
Pre - treatment with rapamycin inhibited activation of mTOR signalling and significantly enhanced the sensitivity of CaSki cells to paclitaxel by increasing apoptotic cell death .
This effect was mediated , at least partly , through caspase activation .
Overall , paclitaxel exerts its anti - tumour effects on cervical cancer cells by inducing apoptosis through intrinsic pathway , and rapamycin targeted to mTOR can sensitise paclitaxel - resistant cervical cancer cells .
Circulating endothelial cells in malignant disease .
Cancer is a disease largely dependent on neoangiogenesis .
Cancer neoangiogenesis is often disordered and abnormal , with evidence of coexisting vascular endothelial dysfunction .
A novel method of assessing vascular endothelial function in cancer is via the quantification of circulating endothelial cells ( CEC ) .
Unusual in healthy individuals , their presence in elevated numbers often indicates substantial vascular endothelial perturbation .
Another interesting cell type is the endothelial progenitor cell ( EPC ) , whose numbers increase in the presence of vascular damage .
Recent research suggests that EPCs have an important role in tumor vasculogenesis .
Another marker being investigated in the context of vascular dysfunction and coagulopathy is the endothelial microparticle ( EMP ) .
Thus , CECs , EPCs and EMPs may represent potentially novel methods for evaluating the vascular status of cancer patients .
This review will summarize the current position of CECs , EPCs and EMPs in cell biology terms , with particular emphasis on their relationship to malignant disease .
GDP and AGE receptors : mechanisms of peritoneal damage .
Long - term peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) is limited by morphological changes of the peritoneal membrane .
Structural changes were promoted by toxicity of glucose degradation products ( GDPs ) which are generated during heat sterilization in peritoneal dialysis fluids ( PDFs ) .
Besides their direct toxicity GDPs promote formation of advanced glycation endproducts ( AGEs ) .
RAGE ( receptor for AGE ) is the best characterized signal transduction receptor for AGEs and is expressed on mesothelial cells .
The effects of PDFs with different amounts of GDPs were compared on morphological changes in the peritoneal membrane in a RAGE - / - mouse model .
It could be demonstrated that RAGE plays a pivotal role in structural damage ( e . g . inflammation , neoangiogenesis and fibrosis ) of the peritoneal membrane .
Further investigations of this pathway with regard to preventing peritoneal fibrosis should be performed to maintain the integrity of the peritoneal membrane in peritoneal dialysis patients .
Hyperfibrinogenemia is associated with lymphatic as well as hematogenous metastasis and worse clinical outcome in T2 gastric cancer .
BACKGROUND : Abnormal hemostasis in cancer patients has previously been described , however the correlation between the plasma fibrinogen level and cancer metastasis and prognosis has not been reported in a large - scale clinical study .
METHODS : Preoperative plasma fibrinogen levels were retrospectively examined in 405 patients who underwent surgery for advanced gastric cancer .
The association of fibrinogen levels with clinical / pathological findings and clinical outcome was evaluated .
RESULTS : There was a positive correlation between plasma fibrinogen levels and the depth of invasion ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
Hyperfibrinogenemia ( > 310 mg / dl ) was independently associated with lymph node ( Odds Ratio ; 2 . 342 , P = 0 . 0032 ) and liver ( Odds Ratio ; 2 . 933 , P = 0 . 0147 ) metastasis , not with peritoneal metastasis in this series .
Patients with hyperfibrinogenemia showed worse clinical outcome in T2 gastric cancer , however , there was no correlation of plasma fibrinogen level with prognosis in T3 / T4 gastric cancer .
CONCLUSION : Our results might support the idea that hyperfibrinogenemia can augment lymphatic and hematogeneous metastasis of advanced gastric cancer , which is major determinant of the prognosis in T2 gastric cancer .
Therefore , in the situation without peritoneal involvement , hyperfibrinogenemia is a useful biomarker to predict the possible metastasis and worse clinical outcome in T2 gastric cancer .
Defective expression of HRK is associated with promoter methylation in primary central nervous system lymphomas .
OBJECTIVES : Recently , it has been reported that expression of the HRK gene was significantly reduced by hypermethylation in astrocytic tumors .
Our aim is to verify the alterations in the HRK gene in primary central nervous system lymphomas ( PCNSLs ) .
METHODS : We analyzed the hypermethylation status and expression of the gene and 12q13 . 1 loss of heterozygosity in 31 PCNSLs .
RESULTS : A total of 13 PCNSLs ( 31 % ) demonstrated hypermethylation in either the promoter or exon 1 ; loss of HRK expression was immunohistochemically observed in 9 tumors and was significantly associated with promoter methylation .
In addition , higher apoptotic counts were associated with HRK positivity .
PCNSLs with HRK methylation also showed methylation of multiple genes , such as p14ARF , p16INK4a , RB1 , p27Kip1 and O6 - MGMT .
Patients with tumors demonstrating concurrent methylation of more than half of their genes demonstrated significantly poorer survival and earlier recurrence .
Hypermethylation of the HRK promoter alone was not associated with overall outcome , but relapse - free survival was significantly shorter .
CONCLUSIONS : Our findings suggest that transcriptional repression of HRK is caused by promoter hypermethylation in PCNSL , and that the loss of HRK associated with the methylation profile of other genes is a potential step in the modulation of cellular death by apoptosis during PCNSL tumorigenesis .
Differential mechanisms of radiosensitization by 2 - deoxy - D - glucose in the monolayers and multicellular spheroids of a human glioma cell line .
In vitro studies using monolayer cultures of human tumor cell lines have shown that 2 - DG selectively inhibits energy - dependent DNA repair and cellular recovery processes in cancer cells .
However , monolayer cultures differ greatly from the complex environmental conditions generated in solid tumors that develop inhomogeneous hypoxic and necrotic regions .
In contrast , multicellular spheroids mimic heterogeneous cellular behavior and the consequent functional characteristics of in vivo solid tumors , and serve as important in vitro model to investigate tumor biology and responses to potential therapeutic agents .
The present study compares the radiomodification by 2 - DG in monolayer cultures and spheroids of a human glioma cell line ( BMG - 1 ) to gain insight into the effects in solid tumors .
In spheroids , the glucose consumption ( 2 . 1 p mole / cell / h ) and lactate production ( 3 . 67 p mole / cell / h ) was nearly 2 - 3 fold higher than in monolayer cells ( 0 . 83 and 1 . 43 p mole / cell / h respectively ) .
Presence of 2 - DG ( 5 mM ) for 2 - 4 h inhibited the glucose usage and lactate production by 70 % in spheroids , while a 35 % reduction was observed in monolayer cells .
Under these conditions , 2 - DG drastically enhanced the radiation - induced cell death of spheroids ( by 2 - 3 folds ) ; while a 40 % increase was observed in monolayer cells .
Radiosensitization by 2 - DG in monolayer cells was primarily due to an increase in mitotic death ( 23 % ) linked to cytogenetic damage ( micronuclei ) , whereas a profound induction of apoptosis ( 40 % ) accounted for the sensitization in spheroids .
Although the Bcl - 2 and Bax levels were significantly higher in spheroids , Bcl - 2 / Bax ratio was similar in monolayers and spheroids .
Comet assay revealed a late onset of DNA breaks in the presence of 2 - DG following irradiation only in spheroids , which corroborated well with the late onset of oxidative stress .
2 - DG did not induce a significant cell cycle delay in monolayers , while a transient G ( 2 ) delay was apparent in spheroids .
[ Autologous bone marrow stem cell or peripheral blood endothelial progenitor cell therapy in patients with peripheral limb ischaemia ]
No effective medical therapies have been developed sofar to enhance blood flow in the legs of patients with peripheral arterial disease ( PAD ) .
For patients with limb threatening ischaemia the only option for relief of rest pain or gangraena is amputation .
There is evidence in experimental and clinical studies that adult bone marrow - derived stem cells and endothelial progenitor cells participate in the development of new blood vessels , called neoangiogenesis or neovascularization .
Clinical results induced by autologous bone marrow stem cells or angiogenic growth / differentiation factors in end - stage patients with PAD are summarized .
Considering the relatively few number of patients treated by angiogenic therapy , the interpretation of clinical results needs cautiousness .
Formation of new bone during vertical distraction osteogenesis of the human mandible is related to the presence of blood vessels .
We examined the effect of distraction rate on blood vessel growth in intramembraneous ossification after vertical distraction osteogenesis in the human mandible .
Six edentulous patients ( aged 60 + / - 9 years ) with a severely atrophic mandible underwent bone augmentation with distraction osteogenesis .
Two distraction rates ( 0 . 5 and 1 mm / day ) were compared and for each group three patients were analyzed .
Vascular histomorphometry was carried out in two different areas in the distraction gap : ( 1 ) in the first and ( 2 ) in the second 1 mm area from the osteotomy line , representing the oldest and younger new - bone area , respectively .
Correlation analysis was performed between blood vessel parameters and the amount of new bone formed during distraction .
Histological analysis demonstrated the presence of blood vessels throughout the soft connective tissue in the distraction gap .
The volume density of blood vessels between the two investigated areas was significantly lower in the 1 mm / day groups , suggesting a delay in angiogenesis in this group of patients .
A positive correlation between blood vessel volume and bone volume density was found in the younger new - bone area but not in the oldest new - bone area .
This correlation was due to a higher number of blood vessels rather than to a larger size of the blood vessels .
Our data suggest that the lower blood vessel density found in the patients with 1 mm / day distraction rate may be related to disruption of angiogenesis in the soft connective tissue of the gap or to a less optimal mechanical stimulation of cells involved in angiogenesis .
This probably results in the slower rate of osteogenesis seen at the 1 mm / day distraction rate compared with the 0 . 5 mm / day distraction rate .
The data support the concept that a positive relationship exists between the density of blood vessels and the formation of bone .
For distraction of the human mandible in elderly patients , a distraction rate of 0 . 5 mm / day seems beneficial .
Neoplastic transformation of ciliary body epithelium is associated with loss of opticin expression .
BACKGROUND : Opticin is a recently discovered glycoprotein present predominantly in the vitreous humour .
It is synthesised and secreted by the ciliary body epithelium ( CBE ) from the initiation of CBE development in the embryo , and production continues throughout life .
AIM : To determine whether a variety of ciliary body tumours synthesise opticin to characterise further its role in ciliary body health and disease .
METHODS : Immunohistochemistry was used to determine the distribution of opticin in normal human CBE , and in hyperplastic and neoplastic CBE lesions .
RESULTS : Opticin was immunolocalised to the basal cell surface and basement membrane material of the non - pigmented CBE in nine donor eyes as well as four hyperplastic lesions of the CBE ( Fuchs ' s adenoma ) .
By contrast , none of eight neoplastic lesions ( two adenoma and six adenocarcinoma ) of CBE stained for opticin .
CONCLUSION : The present series supports the theory that opticin is produced by the non - pigmented CBE throughout adult life .
Loss of opticin expression by this tissue is associated with and could contribute towards neoplastic transformation .
Collagen - poly glycolic acid hybrid matrix with basic fibroblast growth factor accelerated angiogenesis and granulation tissue formation in diabetic mice .
Because poor skin wound healing associated with diabetes is thought to be partly a result from impaired angiogenesis , treatments that improve angiogenesis could have important clinical applications .
We herein report the effects of novel developed material , collagen - poly glycolic acid fiber hybrid matrix , being used together with basic fibroblast growth factor to promote wound healing of full - thickness skin defects on the back of type 2 diabetic Lepr ( db ) mice .
Our data indicates that this therapeutic approach markedly promotes angiogenesis and granulation tissue formation in comparison with other conditions 14 days after wounding .
p18Ink4c , but not p27Kip1 , collaborates with Men1 to suppress neuroendocrine organ tumors .
Mutant mice lacking both cyclin - dependent kinase ( CDK ) inhibitors p18 ( Ink4c ) and p27 ( Kip1 ) develop a tumor spectrum reminiscent of human multiple endocrine neoplasia ( MEN ) syndromes .
To determine how p18 and p27 genetically interact with Men1 , the tumor suppressor gene mutated in familial MEN1 , we characterized p18 - Men1 and p27 - Men1 double mutant mice .
Compared with their corresponding single mutant littermates , the p18 ( - / - ) ; Men1 ( + / - ) mice develop tumors at an accelerated rate and with an increased incidence in the pituitary , thyroid , parathyroid , and pancreas .
In the pituitary and pancreatic islets , phosphorylation of the retinoblastoma ( Rb ) protein at both CDK2 and CDK4 / 6 sites was increased in p18 ( - / - ) and Men1 ( + / - ) cells and was further increased in p18 ( - / - ) ; Men1 ( + / - ) cells .
The remaining wild - type Men1 allele was lost in most tumors from Men1 ( + / - ) mice but was retained in most tumors from p18 ( - / - ) ; Men1 ( + / - ) mice .
Combined mutations of p27 ( - / - ) and Men1 ( + / - ) , in contrast , did not exhibit noticeable synergistic stimulation of Rb kinase activity , cell proliferation , and tumor growth .
These results demonstrate that functional collaboration exists between p18 and Men1 and suggest that Men1 may regulate additional factor ( s ) that interact with p18 and p27 differently .
Punica granatum ( pomegranate ) and its potential for prevention and treatment of inflammation and cancer .
The last 7 years have seen over seven times as many publications indexed by Medline dealing with pomegranate and Punica granatum than in all the years preceding them .
Because of this , and the virtual explosion of interest in pomegranate as a medicinal and nutritional product that has followed , this review is accordingly launched .
The pomegranate tree , Punica granatum , especially its fruit , possesses a vast ethnomedical history and represents a phytochemical reservoir of heuristic medicinal value .
The tree / fruit can be divided into several anatomical compartments : ( 1 ) seed , ( 2 ) juice , ( 3 ) peel , ( 4 ) leaf , ( 5 ) flower , ( 6 ) bark , and ( 7 ) roots , each of which has interesting pharmacologic activity .
Juice and peels , for example , possess potent antioxidant properties , while juice , peel and oil are all weakly estrogenic and heuristically of interest for the treatment of menopausal symptoms and sequellae .
The use of juice , peel and oil have also been shown to possess anticancer activities , including interference with tumor cell proliferation , cell cycle , invasion and angiogenesis .
These may be associated with plant based anti - inflammatory effects , The phytochemistry and pharmacological actions of all Punica granatum components suggest a wide range of clinical applications for the treatment and prevention of cancer , as well as other diseases where chronic inflammation is believed to play an essential etiologic role .
Recombinant human prothrombin kringle - 2 inhibits B16F10 melanoma metastasis through inhibition of neovascularization and reduction of matrix metalloproteinase expression .
Angiogenesis , a multi - step process which involves endothelial cell proliferation , adhesion , migration , and basement membrane ( BM ) degradation , is essential for tumor metastasis .
Here we show that recombinant human prothrombin kringle - 2 ( rk - 2 ) inhibited bovine capillary endothelial cell migration with an IC ( 50 ) ( concentration for half maximal inhibition ) of 38 nM and inhibited adhesion to extracellular matrix ( ECM ) proteins .
Because tumor metastasis requires angiogenesis , we examined whether rk - 2 could inhibit metastases induced by injection of B16F10 melanoma cells into mice .
The results revealed that the metastatic tumors in mouse lung were markedly decreased in a dose - dependent manner and acute lung injury induced by B16F10 melanoma metastasis was diminished by systemic rk - 2 treatment .
In immunohistochemical analysis , rk - 2 reduced expression of vascular endothelial growth factor , which is a potent angiogenic activator and neovascularization in the mouse lung .
Also , rk - 2 diminished the expression of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 in the mouse lung which induces tumor metastasis and angiogenesis .
These data suggest that inhibition of B16F10 melanoma metastasis by rk - 2 was caused by inhibition of neovascularization and reduction of matrix metalloproteinase expression .
Activation of vascular endothelial growth factor through reactive oxygen species mediates 20 - hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid - induced endothelial cell proliferation .
20 - Hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid ( 20 - HETE ) is formed by the omega - hydroxylation of arachidonic acid by cytochrome P450 4A and 4F enzymes , and it induces angiogenic responses in vivo .
To test the hypothesis that 20 - HETE increases endothelial cell ( EC ) proliferation via vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , we studied the effects of WIT003 [ 20 - hydroxyeicosa - 5 ( Z ) , 14 ( Z ) - dienoic acid ] , a 20 - HETE analog on human macrovascular or microvascular EC .
WIT003 , as well as pure 20 - HETE , stimulated EC proliferation by approximately 40 % .
These proliferative effects were accompanied by increased VEGF expression and release that were observed as early as 4 h after 20 - HETE agonist addition .
This was accompanied by increased phosphorylation of the VEGF receptor 2 .
The proliferative effects of 20 - HETE were markedly inhibited by a VEGF - neutralizing antibody .
Polyethylene glycol - superoxide dismutase ( PEG - SOD ) markedly inhibited both the increases in VEGF expression and the proliferative effects of 20 - HETE .
In contrast , administration of the NAD ( P ) H oxidase inhibitor apocynin had no effect to the proliferative response to 20 - HETE .
The 20 - HETE agonist markedly increased superoxide formation as reflected by an increase in dihydroethidium staining of EC , and this increase was inhibited by PEG - SOD but not by apocynin .
20 - HETE also increased the phosphorylation of p42 / p44 mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) in EC , whereas an inhibitor of MAPK [ U0126 , 1 , 4 - diamino - 2 , 3 - dicyano - 1 , 4 - bis ( 2 - aminophenylthio ) butadiene ] suppressed the proliferative and the VEGF changes but not the pro - oxidant effects of 20 - HETE .
These data suggest that 20 - HETE stimulates superoxide formation by pathways other than apocynin - sensitive NAD ( P ) H oxidase , thereby activating MAPK and then enhancing VEGF synthesis that drives EC proliferation .
Thus , 20 - HETE may be involved in the regulation of EC functions , such as angiogenesis .
Relationship of cellular immunity , cytokines and CRP with clinical course in breast cancer patients with endocrine - dependent distant metastases treated with immunotherapy .
We have reported important benefits and survival with an immunotherapy schedule in patients with endocrine - dependent breast cancer and distant metastases .
Here clinical outcome is updated and its correlation with new immunological data is shown .
In 32 evaluated breast cancer patients with endocrine - dependent distant metastases treated with a new immunotherapy schedule ( cyclic administration of beta - interferon and interleukin - 2 ) , cellular immunity , cytokines and CRP were related to the clinical course .
Estimated and true 5 - 10 year overall survival rates from first line antiestrogen and distant metastases were higher than previously reported in a similar population .
Interleukin - 2 administration was followed by a significant increase in total lymphocytes , CD4 + , CD8 + , CD16 + 56 + ( NK ) cells , IL - 6 , IL - 12 , and CRP ( from P < 0 . 04 to P < 0 . 000 ) but no change in IL - 10 and TGFbeta1 during clinical benefit .
During progressive disease no change was observed in the former parameters , concomitant with a significant increase in IL - 10 ( P = 0 . 020 ) and a significant decrease in TGFbeta1 ( P = 0 . 023 ) .
These findings confirm that cellular immunity is significantly stimulated by IL - 2 only during clinical benefit .
Furthermore , these results demonstrate that different changes of proinflammatory cytokines , CRP and inhibiting factors are consistent with associated clinical benefit or with disease progression , respectively .
Trib1 and Evi1 cooperate with Hoxa and Meis1 in myeloid leukemogenesis .
Cooperative activation of Meis1 and Hoxa9 perturbs myeloid differentiation and eventually leads myeloid progenitors to leukemia , yet it remains to be clarified what kinds of subsequent molecular processes are required for development of overt leukemia .
To understand the molecular pathway in Hoxa9 / Meis1 - induced leukemogenesis , retroviral insertional mutagenesis was applied using retrovirus - mediated gene transfer .
The mice that received Hoxa9 / Meis1 - transduced bone marrow cells developed acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) , and Trib1 , Evi1 , Ahi1 , Raralpha , Pitpnb , and AK039950 were identified as candidate cooperative genes located near common retroviral integration sites .
Trib1 and Evi1 were up - regulated due to retroviral insertions , and coexpression of these genes significantly accelerated the onset of Hoxa9 / Meis1 - induced AML , suggesting that Trib1 and Evi1 are the key collaborators .
Furthermore , Trib1 by itself is a novel myeloid oncogene , enhancing phosphorylation of ERK , resulting in inhibition of apoptosis .
These results demonstrate the importance of specific oncogene interaction in myeloid leukemogenesis .
Pro / antioxidant status and AP - 1 transcription factor in murine skin following topical exposure to cumene hydroperoxide .
Organic peroxides , widely used in the chemical and pharmaceutical industries , can act as skin tumor promoters and cause epidermal hyperplasia .
They are also known to trigger free radical generation .
The present study evaluated the effect of cumene hydroperoxide ( Cum - OOH ) on the induction of activator protein - 1 ( AP - 1 ) , which is linked to the expression of genes regulating cell proliferation , growth and transformation .
Previously , we reported that topical exposure to Cum - OOH caused formation of free radicals and oxidative stress in the skin of vitamin E - deficient mice .
The present study used JB6 P + mouse epidermal cells and AP - 1 - luciferase reporter transgenic mice to identify whether exposure to Cum - OOH caused activation of AP - 1 , oxidative stress , depletion of antioxidants and tumor formation during two - stage carcinogenesis .
In vitro studies found that exposure to Cum - OOH reduced the level of glutathione ( GSH ) in mouse epidermal cells ( JB6 P + ) and caused the induction of AP - 1 .
Mice primed with dimethyl - benz [ a ] anthracene ( DMBA ) were topically exposed to Cum - OOH ( 82 . 6 micromol ) or the positive control , 12 - O - tetradecanoylphorbol - 13 - acetate ( TPA , 17 nmol ) , twice weekly for 29 weeks .
Activation of AP - 1 in skin was detected as early as 2 weeks following Cum - OOH or TPA exposure .
No AP - 1 expression was found 19 weeks after initiation .
Papilloma formation was observed in both the DMBA - TPA - and DMBA - Cum - OOH - exposed animals , whereas skin carcinomas were found only in the DMBA - Cum - OOH - treated mice .
A greater accumulation of peroxidative products ( thiobarbituric acid - reactive substances ) , inflammation and decreased levels of GSH and total antioxidant reserves were also observed in the skin of DMBA - Cum - OOH - exposed mice .
These results suggest that Cum - OOH - induced carcinogenesis is accompanied by increased AP - 1 activation and changes in antioxidant status .
Hyperforin blocks neutrophil activation of matrix metalloproteinase - 9 , motility and recruitment , and restrains inflammation - triggered angiogenesis and lung fibrosis .
Hyperforin ( Hyp ) , a polyphenol - derivative of St .
John ' s wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) , has emerged as key player not only in the antidepressant activity of the plant but also as an inhibitor of bacteria lymphocyte and tumor cell proliferation , and matrix proteinases .
We tested whether as well as inhibiting leukocyte elastase ( LE ) activity , Hyp might be effective in containing both polymorphonuclear neutrophil ( PMN ) leukocyte recruitment and unfavorable eventual tissue responses .
The results show that , without affecting in vitro human PMN viability and chemokine - receptor expression , Hyp ( as stable dicyclohexylammonium salt ) was able to inhibit in a dose - dependent manner their chemotaxis and chemoinvasion ( IC50 = 1 microM for both ) ; this effect was associated with a reduced expression of the adhesion molecule CD11b by formyl - Met - Leu - Phe - stimulated neutrophils and block of LE - triggered activation of the gelatinase matrix metalloproteinase - 9 .
PMN - triggered angiogenesis is also blocked by both local injection and daily i . p . administration of the Hyp salt in an interleukin - 8 - induced murine model .
Furthermore , i . p . treatment with Hyp reduces acute PMN recruitment and enhances resolution in a pulmonary bleomycin - induced inflammation model , significantly reducing consequent fibrosis .
These results indicate that Hyp is a powerful anti - inflammatory compound with therapeutic potential , and they elucidate mechanistic keys .
Impaired apoptosis of pulmonary endothelial cells is associated with intimal proliferation and irreversibility of pulmonary hypertension in congenital heart disease .
OBJECTIVES : This study sought to assess the cellular and histologic basis of irreversible pulmonary hypertension ( PHT ) in the clinical setting of congenital heart disease ( CHD ) .
BACKGROUND : Although many children with CHD develop pulmonary vascular disease , it is unclear why this complication is reversible after complete repair in some cases but irreversible in others .
Because failure of endothelial cell apoptosis might lead to intimal proliferation and lack of reversibility of PHT , we investigated this and other key markers of vasoactivity and angiogenesis in subjects with PHT and CHD .
METHODS : We assessed antiapoptotic and proapoptotic markers in vascular and perivascular cells in lung biopsy samples from 18 patients with CHD , 7 with reversible and 11 with irreversible PHT , and 6 control patients .
Immunostaining for endothelial nitric oxide synthase , vascular endothelial growth factor , and CD34 ( markers of vasoactivity and neoangiogenesis ) was also performed .
RESULTS : The antiapoptotic protein Bcl - 2 was highly expressed by pulmonary endothelial cells in all cases of irreversible PHT but in no cases of reversible PHT , nor in control patients ( p less than 0 . 001 ) .
Intimal proliferation was present in 10 of 11 irreversible PHT cases , but never observed in reversible PHT ( p less than 0 . 001 ) .
Similarly , perivascular inflammatory T - cells expressed more antiapoptotic proteins in irreversible PHT ( p less than 0 . 01 ) .
Irreversible PHT cases were also more likely to show compensatory upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor and new small vessel formation at the sites of native vessel stenosis or occlusion ( p less than 0 . 001 ) .
CONCLUSIONS : Irreversible PHT is strongly associated with impaired endothelial cell apoptosis and antiapoptotic signaling from perivascular inflammatory cells .
These changes are associated with intimal proliferation and vessel narrowing , and thereby may contribute to clinical outcomes associated with pulmonary hypertension .
Inhibition of Dll4 - mediated signaling induces proliferation of immature vessels and results in poor tissue perfusion .
Vascular development is dependent on various growth factors and certain modifiers critical for providing arterial or venous identity , interaction with the surrounding stroma and tissues , hierarchic network formation , and recruitment of pericytes .
Notch receptors and ligands ( Jagged and Delta - like ) play a critical role in this process in addition to VEGF .
Dll4 is one of the Notch ligands that regulates arterial specification and maturation events .
In the current study , we have shown that loss of function by either targeted allele deletion or use of a soluble form of Dll4 extracellular domain leads to inhibition of Notch signaling , resulting in increased vascular proliferation but defective maturation .
Newly forming vessels have thin caliber , a markedly reduced vessel lumen , markedly reduced pericyte recruitment , and deficient vascular perfusion .
sDll4 similarly induced defective vascular response in tumor implants leading to reduced tumor growth .
Interference with Dll4 - Notch signaling may be particularly desirable in tumors that have highly induced Dll4 - Notch pathway .
SWAP - 70 is required for oncogenic transformation by v - Src in mouse embryo fibroblasts .
SWAP - 70 is a phosphatidylinositol trisphosphate ( PtdIns ( 3 , 4 , 5 ) P ( 3 ) ) binding protein , which acts in F - actin rearrangement .
The role of SWAP - 70 in oncogenic transformation of mouse embryo fibroblasts ( MEFs ) by v - Src was examined by use of MEFs defective in SWAP - 70 .
v - Src morphologically transformed MEFs lacking SWAP - 70 , but growth of the transformed cells in culture was slower than that of cells supplemented with exogenous SWAP - 70 .
The v - Src - transformed MEFs deficient in SWAP - 70 were unable to grow in soft agar while those expressing SWAP70 readily formed colonies , suggesting that SWAP - 70 is required for anchorage independent growth of v - Src transformed MEFs .
When transplanted in nude mice , tumors formed by the v - Src transformed SWAP - 70 ( - / - ) MEFs were smaller than those formed by cells expressing exogenous SWAP - 70 .
These results suggest that SWAP - 70 may be required for oncogenic transformation and contributes to cell growth in MEFs transformed by v - Src .
Tsg101 is upregulated in a subset of invasive human breast cancers and its targeted overexpression in transgenic mice reveals weak oncogenic properties for mammary cancer initiation .
Previous studies reported that the Tumor Susceptibility Gene 101 ( TSG101 ) is upregulated in selected human malignancies , and the expression of exogenous Tsg101 was suggested to transform immortalized fibroblasts in culture .
To date , the potential oncogenic properties of Tsg101 have not been examined in vivo owing to the lack of appropriate model systems .
In this study , we show that Tsg101 is highly expressed in a subset of invasive human breast cancers .
Based on this observation , we generated the first transgenic mouse model with a targeted overexpression of Tsg101 in the developing mammary gland to test whether exogenous Tsg101 is capable of initiating tumorigenesis .
Normal functionality of exogenous Tsg101 was tested by rescuing the survival of Tsg101 - deficient mammary epithelial cells in conditional knockout mice .
The overexpression of Tsg101 resulted in increased phosphorylation of the epidermal growth factor receptor and downstream activation of MAP kinases .
Despite an increase in the activation of these signal transducers , the mammary gland of females expressing exogenous Tsg101 developed normally throughout the reproductive cycle .
In aging females , the overexpression of Tsg101 seemed to increase the susceptibility of mammary epithelia toward malignant transformation .
However , owing to the long latency of tumor formation and the sporadic occurrence of bona fide mammary cancers , we conclude that the Tsg101 protein has only weak oncogenic properties .
Instead of cancer initiation , it is therefore likely that Tsg101 plays a more predominant role in the progression of a subset of spontaneously arising breast cancers .
Expression of Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 in primary tumors and lymph node metastases in oral squamous cell carcinoma .
Disturbances in expression of apoptosis - associated proteins take part in the development and progression of many human malignancies .
The aim of this study was the assessment of correlations among proteins involved in apoptosis - Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 - as well as relationships of these proteins with selected clinicopathological features in oral squamous cell carcinoma .
Consequently , we examined by immunohistochemistry , using the avidin - biotin - peroxidase method , Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 expression in 56 samples of primary oral squamous cell carcinoma and in 22 matched pairs of primary and metastatic tumors .
The evaluation of immunostaining of Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 was analyzed in 10 different tumor fields , and the mean percentage of tumor cells with positive staining was evaluated .
The significance of the associations was determined using Spearman correlation analysis and the chi - square test .
We found positive Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 immunostaining in 44 . 6 % , 28 . 6 % , and 58 . 9 % of the studied primary tumors and in 63 . 6 % , 45 . 5 % , and 72 . 7 % of lymph node metastases , respectively .
Analysis of associations among studied proteins revealed positive correlation between Bcl - xL and Bax in primary tumors ( P < 0 . 03 , r = 0 . 307 ) .
Statistically significant relationship between p53 expression in primary oral cancers and its expression in lymph node metastases ( P < 0 . 02 ) as well as increased expression of Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 in metastatic sites compared with primary tumors could indicate an association of these proteins with oral cancer progression and development of metastases .
Moreover , we suppose that knowledge about heterogeneity between primary and metastatic tumor might help to understand mechanisms of oral cancer progression .
An antibody directed against PDGF receptor beta enhances the antitumor and the anti - angiogenic activities of an anti - VEGF receptor 2 antibody .
Platelet - derived growth factor ( PDGF ) and its receptors ( PDGFR ) play important roles in tumorigenesis through stimulating tumor growth and promoting angiogenesis via enhancing pericyte recruitment and vessel maturation .
Here we produced a neutralizing antibody , 1B3 , directed against mouse PDGFRbeta .
1B3 binds to PDGFRbeta with high affinity ( 9x10 ( - 11 ) M ) and blocks PDGF - BB from binding to the receptor with an IC ( 50 ) of approximately 1 . 2 nM .
The antibody also blocks ligand - stimulated activation of PDGFRbeta and downstream signaling molecules , including Akt and MAPK p42 / 44 , in tumor cells .
In animal studies , 1B3 significantly enhanced the antitumor and the anti - angiogenic activities of DC101 , an antibody directed against mouse vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 , in a pancreatic ( BxPC - 3 ) and a non - small cell lung ( NCI - H460 ) tumor xenograft models .
Treatment with the combination of 1B3 and DC101 in BxPC - 3 xenograft - bearing mice resulted in tumor regression in 58 % of mice compared to that in 18 % of mice treated with DC101 alone .
Taken together , these results lend great support to use PDGFRbeta antagonists in combinations with other antitumor and / or anti - angiogenic agents in the treatment of a variety of cancers .
In vivo p53 response and immune reaction underlie highly effective low - dose radiotherapy in follicular lymphoma .
Very low - dose irradiation ( 2 x 2 Gy ) is a new , effective , and safe local treatment for follicular lymphoma .
To understand the biologic mechanisms of this extremely effective response , we compared by microarray the gene - expression profile of patients ' biopsies taken before and after radiation .
In all patients , a major and consistent induction of p53 target genes was seen .
p53 targets involved in cell - cycle arrest and apoptosis showed the same mode of regulation , indicating that , in vivo , both are activated simultaneously .
p53 up - regulation and p53 - mediated proliferation arrest and apoptosis were substantiated using immunohistochemistry , with activation of both the intrinsic and the extrinsic apoptotic pathways .
The other induced genes revealed a whole set of biologically meaningful genes related to macrophage activation and TH1 immune response .
Immunohistochemical analysis suggested a specific activation or differentiation of resident macrophages by apoptotic cells .
These biologic insights are important arguments to advocate the use of low - dose radiotherapy as an effective palliative treatment for follicular lymphoma .
Moreover , this study is the first in vivo report of the radiation - induced p53 apoptotic response in patients and suggests that this apoptotic response is not immunologically silent .
Caffeine inhibits adenosine - induced accumulation of hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha , vascular endothelial growth factor , and interleukin - 8 expression in hypoxic human colon cancer cells .
Frequent coffee consumption has been associated with a reduced risk of colorectal cancer in a number of case - control studies .
Coffee is a leading source of methylxanthines , such as caffeine .
The induction of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and interleukin - 8 ( IL - 8 ) is an essential feature of tumor angiogenesis , and the hypoxia - inducible factor - 1 ( HIF - 1 ) transcription factor is known to be a key regulator of this process .
In this study , we investigated the effects of caffeine on HIF - 1 protein accumulation and on VEGF and IL - 8 expression in the human colon cancer cell line HT29 under hypoxic conditions .
Our results show that caffeine significantly inhibits adenosine - induced HIF - 1alpha protein accumulation in cancer cells .
We show that HIF - 1alpha and VEGF are increased through A3 adenosine receptor stimulation , whereas the effects on IL - 8 are mediated via the A2B subtype .
Pretreatment of cells with caffeine significantly reduces adenosine - induced VEGF promoter activity and VEGF and IL - 8 expression .
The mechanism of caffeine seems to involve the inhibition of the extracellular signal - regulated kinase 1 / 2 ( ERK1 / 2 ) , p38 , and Akt , leading to a marked decrease in adenosine - induced HIF - 1alpha accumulation , VEGF transcriptional activation , and VEGF and IL - 8 protein accumulation .
From a functional perspective , we observe that caffeine also significantly inhibits the A3 receptor - stimulated cell migration of colon cancer cells .
Conditioned media prepared from colon cells treated with an adenosine analog increased human umbilical vein endothelial cell migration .
These data provide evidence that adenosine could modulate the migration of colon cancer cells by an HIF - 1alpha / VEGF / IL - 8 - dependent mechanism and that caffeine has the potential to inhibit colon cancer cell growth .
Medical therapy for intermittent claudication .
Medical therapy to improve symptoms , stabilise the underlying vascular disease and improve lower limb outcomes is an important and effective adjunct to lifestyle modification and surgical or endovascular interventions in patients with IC .
Randomised placebo controlled trials have shown that the phosphodiesterase III inhibitor cilostazol 100mg bid improves pain - free and maximum walking distance , as well as quality of life , in a range of patients with intermittent claudication in whom there is no evidence of tissue necrosis or rest pain .
This review summarises the evidence from 8 pivotal trials of cilostazol involving over 2000 patients with intermittent claudication treated for up to 6 months .
There is comparatively less evidence to support the use of other treatment modalities for relief of symptoms in intermittent claudication , but there is considerable interest in therapeutic angiogenesis to promote new vessel formation and enhance collateralisation of the lower limb using recombinant growth factor proteins or gene transfer strategies .
The rationale for therapeutic angiogenesis is discussed , together with the most recent results from randomised trials in patients with peripheral arterial disease .
Modulating metastasis by a lymphangiogenic switch in prostate cancer .
Prostate cancer dissemination is difficult to detect in the clinic , and few treatment options exist for patients with advanced - stage disease .
Our aim was to investigate the role of tumor lymphangiogenesis during metastasis .
Further , we implemented a noninvasive molecular imaging technique to facilitate the assessment of the metastatic process .
The metastatic potentials of several human prostate cancer xenograft models , LAPC - 4 , LAPC - 9 , PC3 and CWR22Rv - 1 were compared .
The cells were labeled with luciferase , a bioluminescence imaging reporter gene , to enable optical imaging .
After tumor implantation the animals were examined weekly during several months for the appearance of metastases .
Metastatic lesions were confirmed by immunohistochemistry .
Additionally , the angiogenic and lymphangiogenic profiles of the tumors were characterized .
To confirm the role of lymphangiogenesis in mediating metastasis , the low - metastatic LAPC - 9 tumor cells were engineered to overexpress VEGF - C , and the development of metastases was evaluated .
Our results show CWR22Rv - 1 and PC3 tumor cell lines to be more metastatic than LAPC - 4 , which in turn disseminates more readily than LAPC - 9 .
The difference in metastatic potential correlated with the endogenous production levels of lymphangiogenic growth factor VEGF - C and the presence of tumor lymphatics .
In agreement , induced overexpression of VEGF - C in LAPC - 9 enhanced tumor lymphangiogenesis leading to the development of metastatic lesions .
Taken together , our studies , based on a molecular imaging approach for semiquantitative detection of micrometastases , point to an important role of tumor lymphatics in the metastatic process of human prostate cancer .
In particular , VEGF - C seems to play a key role in prostate cancer metastasis .
An assay to measure angiogenesis in human fat tissue .
BACKGROUND : Inhibition of angiogenesis reverses rodent obesity .
A validated assay in human fat tissue is needed to study the role of angiogenesis in human obesity .
METHODS : Human fat tissue fragments from surgery were placed in 96 - well plates , embedded in fibrin thrombin clot and overlaid with cell culture media containing 20 % fetal bovine serum .
After 15 days , the clots were examined by histology and electron microscopy .
The effect of taxol , cobalt chloride and a heparin - steroid combination was tested in the fat tissue assay and compared to the validated human placental vein angiogenesis model ( HPVAM ) .
RESULTS : Blood vessels initiated growth and elongated from the fat tissue fragments over 15 days .
Presence of blood vessels was confirmed with histology and electron microscopy .
Taxol at 10 ( - 6 ) and 10 ( - 7 ) M completely inhibited angiogenesis , while Taxol 10 ( - 8 ) and 10 ( - 9 ) M and the heparin - steroid partially inhibited angiogenesis .
The response to taxol and heparin - steroid was similar to that of the HPVAM , a validated angiogenesis assay .
Cobalt chloride , a stimulator of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) stimulated angiogenesis initiation at 10 ( - 9 ) M in fat tissue and the HPVAM , but at 10 ( - 10 ) M blood vessel growth was stimulated only in the fat assay .
CONCLUSION : This angiogenesis assay based on human fat tissue uses three - dimensionally intact human tissue .
The vessels are derived from quiescient vessels within the fat .
These properties allow the angiogenic switch to be evaluated in an in vitro setting .
The angiogenic response of fat tissue is not identical to placental tissue .
This assay allows exploration of angiogenesis in fat tissue .
Subcellular localisation of BAG - 1 and its regulation of vitamin D receptor - mediated transactivation and involucrin expression in oral keratinocytes : implications for oral carcinogenesis .
In oral cancers , cytoplasmic BAG - 1 overexpression is a marker of poor prognosis .
BAG - 1 regulates cellular growth , differentiation and survival through interactions with diverse proteins , including the vitamin D receptor ( VDR ) , a key regulator of keratinocyte growth and differentiation .
BAG - 1 is expressed ubiquitously in human cells as three major isoforms of 50 kDa ( BAG - 1L ) , 46 kDa ( BAG - 1M ) and 36 kDa ( BAG - 1S ) from a single mRNA .
In oral keratinocytes BAG - 1L , but not BAG - 1M and BAG - 1S , enhanced VDR transactivation in response to 1alpha , 25 - dihydroxyvitamin D3 .
BAG - 1L was nucleoplasmic and nucleolar , whereas BAG - 1S and BAG - 1M were cytoplasmic and nucleoplasmic in localisation .
Having identified the nucleolar localisation sequence in BAG - 1L , we showed that mutation of this sequence did not prevent BAG - 1L from potentiating VDR activity .
BAG - 1L also potentiated transactivation of known vitamin - D - responsive gene promoters , osteocalcin and 24 - hydroxylase , and enhanced VDR - dependent transcription and protein expression of the keratinocyte differentiation marker , involucrin .
These results demonstrate endogenous gene regulation by BAG - 1L by potentiating nuclear hormone receptor function and suggest a role for BAG - 1L in 24 - hydroxylase regulation of vitamin D metabolism and the cellular response of oral keratinocytes to 1alpha , 25 - dihydroxyvitamin D3 .
By contrast to the cytoplasmic BAG - 1 isoforms , BAG - 1L may act to suppress tumorigenesis .
Transporters , enzymes , and enalapril removal in a rat ( CC531 - induced ) liver metastatic model .
Temporal changes in physiological spaces , protein expression of transporters and enzymes , and enalapril removal were appraised in the metastatic liver tumor model developed from male Wag / Rij rats after the intraportal injection of CC531 colon adenocarcinoma cells ; sham - operated preparations received PBS .
Liver tissue spaces , investigated with multiple indicator dilution technique in liver perfusion studies , were unchanged at week 3 after tumor induction .
At week 4 , however , the sinusoidal blood volume and albumin Disse space in tumor - bearing livers were slightly lower compared with those of shams .
Increased levels of the canalicular ATP transporters , P - glycoprotein , multidrug resistance - associated protein 2 ( Mrp2 ) , and bile salt export pump ( Bsep ) at week 2 ( P < 0 . 05 ) , unchanged levels of Ntcp , Oatp1a1 , Oatp1a4 , and Mct2 , but decreased levels of cytochrome P450 3a2 ( Cyp3a2 ) and glutathione S - transferase ( Gst4 - 4 ) at week 4 ( P < 0 . 05 ) were observed in peritumor vs . sham - operated liver tissues with Western blotting .
The steady - state extraction ratio of enalapril , a substrate that enters the liver rapidly via Oatp1a1 and primarily undergoes metabolism by the carboxylesterases , was unaffected by liver metastasis at week 4 regardless of its delivery via the portal vein or hepatic artery into the perfused liver preparations .
Wnt signaling , stem cells , and the cellular origin of breast cancer .
The breast epithelium comprises cells at different stages of differentiation , including stem cells , progenitor cells , and more differentiated epithelial and myoepithelial cells .
Wnt signaling plays a critical role in regulating stem / progenitor cells in the mammary gland as well as other tissue compartments .
Furthermore , there is strong evidence suggesting that aberrant activation of Wnt signaling induces mammary tumors from stem / progenitor cells , and that Wnt exerts its oncogenic effects through LRP5 / 6 - mediated activation of beta - catenin and mTOR pathways .
Recent studies using avian retrovirus - mediated introduction of oncogenes into a small subset of somatic mammary cells suggest that polyoma middle T antigen ( PyMT ) may also preferentially transform stem / progenitor cells .
These observations suggest that stem / progenitor cells in the mammary gland may be especially susceptible to oncogenic transformation .
Whether more differentiated cells may also be transformed by particular oncogenes is actively debated ; it is presently unclear whether stem cells or differentiated mammary cells are more susceptible to transformation by individual oncogenes .
Better stem cell and progenitor cell markers as well as the ability to specifically target oncogenes into different mammary cell types will be needed to determine the spectrum of oncogene transformation for stem cells versus more differentiated cells .
Ovarian cancers overexpress the antimicrobial protein hCAP - 18 and its derivative LL - 37 increases ovarian cancer cell proliferation and invasion .
The role of the pro - inflammatory peptide , LL - 37 , and its pro - form , human cationic antimicrobial protein 18 ( hCAP - 18 ) , in cancer development and progression is poorly understood .
In damaged and inflamed tissue , LL - 37 functions as a chemoattractant , mitogen and pro - angiogenic factor suggesting that the peptide may potentiate tumor progression .
The aim of this study was to characterize the distribution of hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 in normal and cancerous ovarian tissue and to examine the effects of LL - 37 on ovarian cancer cells .
Expression of hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 was localized to immune and granulosa cells of normal ovarian tissue .
By contrast , ovarian tumors displayed significantly higher levels of hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 where expression was observed in tumor and stromal cells .
Protein expression was statistically compared to the degree of immune cell infiltration and microvessel density in epithelial - derived ovarian tumors and a significant correlation was observed for both .
It was demonstrated that ovarian tumor tissue lysates and ovarian cancer cell lines express hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 .
Treatment of ovarian cancer cell lines with recombinant LL - 37 stimulated proliferation , chemotaxis , invasion and matrix metalloproteinase expression .
These data demonstrate for the first time that hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 is significantly overexpressed in ovarian tumors and suggest LL - 37 may contribute to ovarian tumorigenesis through direct stimulation of tumor cells , initiation of angiogenesis and recruitment of immune cells .
These data provide further evidence of the existing relationship between pro - inflammatory molecules and ovarian cancer progression .
Tumor microenvironment , a dangerous society leading to cancer metastasis .
From mechanisms to therapy and prevention .
Cancer is no longer considered by scientists just a jumble of mutated cells .
To grow , invade and metastasize , a treacherous society between cancer and host cells must be formed , and this association provides novel and effective clinical targets for cancer control and prevention .
This collection of reviews at the front - edge of scientific knowledge focuses on host - tumor cell interactions , the disastrous consequences they can produce and approaches the ways to break up these cellular conspiracies , to leave the tumor cells unattended and vulnerable .
[ Photodynamic therapy in severe chronic central serous chorioretinopaty ]
OBJECTIVE : To determine the efficacy of Photodynamic Therapy ( PDT ) in chronic Central Serous Chorioretinopathy ( CSC ) .
METHODS : Patients diagnosed with chronic CSC , with clinical evidence of activity and treated with Photodynamic Therapy , are included in this report .
All were assessed by a complete ophthalmological examination , including assessment of the best corrected visual acuity ( BCVA ) using an ETDRS chart , fluorescein and indocyanine angiography and optical coherence tomography ( OCT ) .
The main objective of the study was to determine the mean visual acuity change .
RESULTS : 11 eyes of 11 patients were included in the study , which had a mean follow - up period of 11 months .
The mean BCVA increased from 20 / 76 to 20 / 64 .
35 % of eyes improved their BCVA by 2 lines or more , 45 % remained stable and 18 % lost 2 lines or more .
Choroidal hyperpermeability was reduced in every case .
Neurosensorial retinal detachment decreased in 80 % of cases .
Only one eye received a second PDT treatment due to choroidal neovascularization .
An increase of atrophy over the Retinal Pigment Epithelium ( RPE ) was observed in another patient .
CONCLUSIONS : PDT can reduce the clinical signs of activity , such as choroidal hyperpermeability or neurosensorial retinal detachment , in patients affected by chronic CSC .
However , the increase in visual acuity is variable , probably due to the extent of RPE damage .
Angiopoietin - 1 prevents VEGF - induced endothelial permeability by sequestering Src through mDia .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and Angiopoietin 1 ( Ang1 ) are both potent proangiogenic factors , but , whereas VEGF causes vascular permeability , Ang1 stabilizes blood vessels and protects them from VEGF - induced plasma leakage .
The antivascular permeability mechanisms deployed by Ang1 are still undefined .
Here , we demonstrate that Ang1 halts the ability of VEGF to induce the phosphorylation - dependent redistribution of the adhesion molecule VE - cadherin , thereby rescuing the endothelial barrier function .
Ang1 inhibits the activation of Src by VEGF , the most upstream component of the pathway linking VEGF receptors to VE - cadherin internalization .
Indeed , Ang1 promotes the activation of mDia through RhoA , resulting in the association of mDia with Src .
This ultimately deprives VEGF receptors of an essential molecule required for promoting the disruption of endothelial cell - cell contacts and paracellular permeability .
RUNX1 DNA - binding mutations and RUNX1 - PRDM16 cryptic fusions in BCR - ABL + leukemias are frequently associated with secondary trisomy 21 and may contribute to clonal evolution and imatinib resistance .
Acquired molecular abnormalities ( mutations or chromosomal translocations ) of the RUNX1 transcription factor gene are frequent in acute myeloblastic leukemias ( AMLs ) and in therapy - related myelodysplastic syndromes , but rarely in acute lymphoblastic leukemias ( ALLs ) and chronic myelogenous leukemias ( CMLs ) .
Among 18 BCR - ABL + leukemias presenting acquired trisomy of chromosome 21 , we report a high frequency ( 33 % ) of recurrent point mutations ( 4 in myeloid blast crisis [ BC ] CML and one in chronic phase CML ) within the DNA - binding region of RUNX1 .
We did not found any mutation in de novo BCR - ABL + ALLs or lymphoid BC CML .
Emergence of the RUNX1 mutations was detected at diagnosis or before the acquisition of trisomy 21 during disease progression .
In addition , we also report a high frequency of cryptic chromosomal RUNX1 translocation to a novel recently described gene partner , PRDM16 on chromosome 1p36 , for 3 ( 21 . 4 % ) of 14 investigated patients : 2 myeloid BC CMLs and , for the first time , 1 therapy - related BCR - ABL + ALL .
Two patients presented both RUNX1 mutations and RUNX1 - PRDM16 fusion .
These events are associated with a short survival and support the concept of a cooperative effect of BCR - ABL with molecular RUNX1 abnormalities on the differentiation arrest phenotype observed during progression of CML and in BCR - ABL + ALL .
Suppression of lung tumor growth and metastasis in mice by adeno - associated virus - mediated expression of vasostatin .
PURPOSE : Angiogenesis inhibitors have strong therapeutic potential as antitumor agents in suppressing tumor growth and metastatic progression .
Vasostatin , the N - terminal domain of calreticulin , is a potent angiogenesis inhibitor .
In this study , we determined the effectiveness of vasostatin delivered by recombinant pseudotype adeno - associated virus 2 / 5 ( rAAV2 / 5 - VAS ) as a gene therapy approach for lung cancer treatment .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : We used rAAV2 / 5 to deliver vasostatin intratumorally or systemically in different mouse lung tumor models - - subcutaneous , orthotopic xenograft , and spontaneous metastasis lung tumor models .
The therapeutic efficacy of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS was determined by monitoring tumor volume , survival rate , and degree of neovascularization after treatment in these models .
RESULTS : Mice bearing subcutaneous tumor of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS pretreated Lewis lung carcinoma cells showed > 50 % reduction in primary tumor volume and reduced spontaneous pulmonary metastases .
The tumor - suppressive action of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS in subcutaneous human lung tumor A549 xenograft correlated with a reduced number of capillary vessels in tumors .
In the orthotopic xenograft model , rAAV2 / 5 - VAS suppressed metastasis of A549 tumors to mediastinal lymph nodes and contralateral lung .
Furthermore , treatment of immunocompetent mice in the spontaneous lung metastases model with rAAV2 / 5 - VAS after primary tumor excision prolonged their median survival from 21 to 51 . 5 days .
CONCLUSION : Our results show the effectiveness of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS as an angiogenesis inhibitor in suppressing tumor growth during different stages of tumor progression , validating the application of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS gene therapy in treatment against lung cancer .
Radiation retinopathy is treatable with anti - vascular endothelial growth factor bevacizumab ( Avastin ) .
PURPOSE : To report on bevacizumab treatment for radiation retinopathy affecting the macula .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : Twenty - one patients with radiation retinopathy ( edema , hemorrhages , capillary dropout , and neovascularization ) and a subjective or objective loss of vision were treated .
Treatment involved intravitreal injection of bevacizumab ( 1 . 25 mg in 0 . 05 mL ) every 6 - 12 weeks .
Treatment was discontinued at patient request or if there was no measurable response to therapy .
Main outcome measures included best corrected visual acuity , ophthalmic examination , retinal photography , and angiography .
RESULTS : Bevacizumab treatment was followed by reductions in retinal hemorrhage , exudation , and edema .
Visual acuities were stable or improved in 86 % ( n = 18 ) .
Three patients discontinued therapy .
Each was legally blind before treatment ( n = 1 ) , experienced little to no subjective improvement ( n = 2 ) , or was poorly compliant ( n = 2 ) .
Three patients ( 14 % ) regained 2 or more lines of visual acuity .
No ocular or systemic bevacizumab - related side effects were observed .
CONCLUSIONS : Intravitreal bevacizumab can be used to treat radiation retinopathy .
In most cases treatment was associated with decreased vascular leakage , stabilization , or improved vision .
An anti - vascular endothelial growth factor strategy may reduce tissue damage associated with radiation vasculopathy and neuropathy .
Mitogen - activated protein kinase kinase signaling promotes growth and vascularization of fibrosarcoma .
We hypothesized that signaling through multiple mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) kinase ( MKK ) pathways is essential for the growth and vascularization of soft - tissue sarcomas , which are malignant tumors derived from mesenchymal tissues .
We tested this using HT - 1080 , NCI , and Shac fibrosarcoma - derived cell lines and anthrax lethal toxin ( LeTx ) , a bacterial toxin that inactivates MKKs .
Western blots confirmed that LeTx treatment reduced the levels of phosphorylated extracellular signal - regulated kinase and p38 MAPK in vitro .
Although short treatments with LeTx only modestly affected cell proliferation , sustained treatment markedly reduced cell numbers .
LeTx also substantially inhibited the extracellular release of angioproliferative factors including vascular endothelial growth factor , interleukin - 8 , and basic fibroblast growth factor .
Similar results were obtained with cell lines derived from malignant fibrous histiocytomas , leiomyosarcomas , and liposarcomas .
In vivo , LeTx decreased MAPK activity and blocked fibrosarcoma growth .
Growth inhibition correlated with decreased cellular proliferation and extensive necrosis , and it was accompanied by a decrease in tumor mean vessel density as well as a reduction in serum expression of angioproliferative cytokines .
Vital imaging using high - resolution ultrasound enhanced with contrast microbubbles revealed that the effects of LeTx on tumor perfusion were remarkably rapid ( less than 24 h ) and resulted in a marked reduction of perfusion within the tumor but not in nontumor tissues .
These results are consistent with our initial hypothesis and lead us to propose that MKK inhibition by LeTx is a broadly effective strategy for targeting neovascularization in fibrosarcomas and other similar proliferative lesions .
A novel putative tyrosine kinase receptor with oncogenic potential .
We have detected transforming activity by a tumorigenicity assay using NIH3T3 cells transfected with DNA from a chronic myeloproliferative disorder patient .
Here , we report the cDNA cloning of the corresponding oncogene , designated UFO , in allusion to the as yet unidentified function of its protein .
Nucleotide sequence analysis of a 3116bp cDNA clone revealed a 2682 - bp - long open reading frame capable of directing the synthesis of a 894 amino acid polypeptide .
The predicted UFO protein exhibits characteristic features of a transmembrane receptor with associated tyrosine kinase activity .
The UFO proto - oncogene maps to human chromosome 19q13 . 1 and is transcribed into two 5 . 0 kb and 3 . 2 kb mRNAs in human bone marrow and human tumor cell lines .
The UFO locus is evolutionarily conserved between vertebrate species .
A 4 . 0 kb mRNA of the murine UFO homolog is expressed in a variety of different mouse tissues .
We thus have identified a novel element of the complex signaling network involved in the control of cell proliferation and differentiation .
Proteomic comparison of nasopharyngeal cancer cell lines C666 - 1 and NP69 identifies down - regulation of annexin II and beta2 - tubulin for nasopharyngeal carcinoma .
CONTEXT : Nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( NPC ) , common in southern China and North Africa , has a complex etiology involving interplay between viral , environmental , and hereditary factors and is almost constantly associated with the Epstein - Barr virus .
Since the prognosis of locally advanced and metastatic diseases is poor , increased understanding of the pathogenesis of NPC would be important for discovering novel markers for patients ' management .
OBJECTIVES : To compare the proteomic expression profile between an Epstein - Barr virus - associated NPC cell line ( C666 - 1 ) and a normal NP cell line ( NP69 ) .
The proteins with differential expression were analyzed in 40 undifferentiated NPC paraffin - embedded specimens .
DESIGN : Differentially expressed proteins discovered between the two cell lines were identified by mass spectrometry .
After confirmation by immunocytochemical staining , their expression in patient samples was measured using 40 pairs of undifferentiated NPCs together with their adjacent normal epithelia .
RESULTS : Proteomic findings indicated that adenosine triphosphate synthase alpha chain was up - regulated , whereas annexin II , annexin V , beta ( 2 ) - tubulin , and profilin 1 were down - regulated .
After confirming the results in agar - processed cell lines , annexin II and beta ( 2 ) - tubulin expression were found to be lower in tumor cells than in adjacent normal epithelial cells in 100 % and 90 % of the patients ' specimens , respectively .
Finally , annexin II down - regulation was positively associated with lymph node metastasis , suggesting that it may be a prognostic factor in NPC .
CONCLUSIONS : The results suggest that annexin II and beta ( 2 ) - tubulin down - regulation is important in NPC formation and may represent potential targets for further investigations .
MMTV - cre - mediated fur inactivation concomitant with PLAG1 proto - oncogene activation delays salivary gland tumorigenesis in mice .
Proprotein convertases are serine endoproteases implicated in the proteolytic processing of a large variety of regulatory proteins .
An important role of proprotein convertases in tumorigenic processes has been suggested by various studies .
In this study , the role of the proprotein convertase furin in PLAG1 proto - oncogene - induced salivary gland tumorigenesis was investigated .
PLAG1 overexpression in salivary glands has previously been shown to result in salivary gland tumors in 100 % of mice within 5 weeks after birth .
MMTV - cre - mediated inactivation of fur without over - expression of PLAG1 caused smaller but histologically normal salivary glands .
Moreover , the lymph nodes close to the salivary glands were enlarged , and histology showed that they had activated follicles .
When genetic ablation of 1 or 2 alleles of fur and overexpression of the PLAG1 transgene were simultaneously achieved , a significant delay in tumorigenesis was observed .
Collectively , these results suggest an important role for furin in PLAG1 - induced salivary gland tumorigenesis in mice .
Isotype - specific inhibitors of the glycolytic key regulator pyruvate kinase subtype M2 moderately decelerate tumor cell proliferation .
Tumor cells express the glycolytic regulator pyruvate kinase subtype M2 ( M2 - PK ) , which can occur in a tetrameric form with high affinity to its substrate phosphoenolpyruvate ( PEP ) and a dimeric form with a low PEP affinity .
The transition between both conformations contributes to the control of glycolysis and is important for tumor cell proliferation and survival .
Here we targeted M2 - PK by synthetic peptide aptamers , which specifically bind to M2 - PK and shift the isoenzyme into its low affinity dimeric conformation .
The aptamer - induced dimerization and inactivation of M2 - PK led to a significant decrease in the PK mass - action ratio as well as ATP : ADP ratio in the target cells .
Furthermore , the expression of M2 - PK - binding peptide aptamers moderately reduced the growth of immortalized NIH3T3 cell populations by decelerating cell proliferation , but without affecting apoptotic cell death .
Moreover , the M2 - PK - binding peptide aptamers also reduced the proliferation rate of human U - 2 OS osteosarcoma cells .
In the present study , we developed the first specific inhibitors of the pyruvate kinase isoenzyme type M2 and present evidence that these inhibitors moderately decelerate tumor cell proliferation .
Hematogenous metastasis in gastric cancer requires isolated tumor cells and expression of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 1 .
PURPOSE : Recent studies of cancer metastasis have focused on the role of premetastatic gene expression and circulating tumor cells .
We did a blind prospective study in gastric cancer to assess the significance of isolated tumor cells ( ITC ) and to test the hypothesis that vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 1 ( VEGFR - 1 ) is expressed within the bone marrow at tumor - specific , premetastatic sites .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : Both bone marrow and peripheral blood samples from 810 gastric cancer patients were collected at the Central Hospital , National Cancer Center ( Tokyo , Japan ) .
The samples were transferred to Kyushu University Hospital ( Beppu , Japan ) where they were analyzed by quantitative real - time reverse transcription - PCR for three epithelial cell markers , carcinoembryonic antigen , cytokeratin - 19 , and cytokeratin - 7 , as well as VEGFR - 1 .
RESULTS : ITCs were observed in peripheral blood and bone marrow even in early stages of gastric cancer .
The frequency of ITC in bone marrow was significantly associated with the stage of disease by ANOVA ( P < 0 . 01 ) .
Gastric cancer metastasized when ITCs were observed in the presence of VEGFR - 1 .
In the 380 patients who were ITC negative and showed low VEGFR - 1 expression , synchronous ( at the time of surgery ) and heterochronous ( recurrent ) metastases were not observed .
CONCLUSIONS : ITCs circulate even in early stages of disease .
Furthermore , elevated expression of VEGFR - 1 facilitates the establishment of hematogenous metastases in gastric cancer .
This study indicates that the simultaneous presence of ITC and VEGFR - 1 expression at premetastatic sites is clinically significant for disease progression .
Acute ethanol exposure disrupts VEGF receptor cell signaling in endothelial cells .
Physiological angiogenesis is regulated by various factors , including signaling through vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) receptors .
We previously reported that a single dose of ethanol ( 1 . 4 g / kg ) , yielding a blood alcohol concentration of 100 mg / dl , significantly impairs angiogenesis in murine wounds , despite adequate levels of VEGF , suggesting direct effects of ethanol on endothelial cell signaling ( 40 ) .
To examine the mechanism by which ethanol influences angiogenesis in wounds , we employed two different in vitro angiogenesis assays to determine whether acute ethanol exposure ( 100 mg / dl ) would have long - lasting effects on VEGF - induced capillary network formation .
Ethanol exposure resulted in reduced VEGF - induced cord formation on collagen and reduced capillary network structure on Matrigel in vitro .
In addition , ethanol exposure decreased expression of endothelial VEGF receptor - 2 , as well as VEGF receptor - 2 phosphorylation in vitro .
Inhibition of ethanol metabolism by 4 - methylpyrazole partially abrogated the effect of ethanol on endothelial cell cord formation .
However , mice treated with t - butanol , an alcohol not metabolized by alcohol dehydrogenase , exhibited no change in wound vascularity .
These results suggest that products of ethanol metabolism are important factors in the development of ethanol - induced changes in endothelial cell responsiveness to VEGF .
In vivo , ethanol exposure caused both decreased angiogenesis and increased hypoxia in wounds .
Moreover , in vitro experiments demonstrated a direct effect of ethanol on the response to hypoxia in endothelial cells , as ethanol diminished nuclear hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha protein levels .
Together , the data establish that acute ethanol exposure significantly impairs angiogenesis and suggest that this effect is mediated by changes in endothelial cell responsiveness to both VEGF and hypoxia .
Adenomatoid tumour of the liver .
An unusual primary adenomatoid tumour arising in the normal liver is described .
Hepatectomy was performed , and the patient is alive and free of disease 1 year postsurgery .
Grossly , the tumour showed a haemorrhagic cut surface with numerous microcystic structures .
Histological examination revealed cystic or angiomatoid spaces of various sizes lined by cuboidal , low - columnar , or flattened epithelioid cells with vacuolated cytoplasm and round to oval nuclei .
The epithelioid cells were entirely supported by proliferated capillaries and arteries together with collagenous stroma .
Immunohistochemical studies showed that the epithelioid cells were strongly positive for a broad spectrum of cytokeratins ( AE1 / AE3 , CAM5 . 2 , epithelial membrane antigen and cytokeratin 7 ) and mesothelial markers ( calretinin , Wilms ' tumour 1 and D2 - 40 ) .
These cells were negative for Hep par - 1 , carcinoembryonic antigen , neural cell adhesion molecule , CD34 , CD31 and HMB45 .
Atypically , abundant capillaries were observed ; however , the cystic proliferation of epithelioid cells with vacuoles and immunohistochemical profile of the epithelioid element were consistent with hepatic adenomatoid tumour .
Contemporary perspectives on vital pulp therapy : views from the endodontists and pediatric dentists .
The purpose of this study was to determine the level of agreement between pediatric dentists and endodontists at a pulp therapy symposium conjointly sponsored by the American Association of Endodontists ( AAE ) and the American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry ( AAPD ) on November 2 - 3 , 2007 .
Presymposium and postsymposium tests were administered , and respondent answers were compared between pediatric dentists and endodontists .
Opinions on 3 areas were sought : pulp therapy for cariously involved primary teeth ; indirect pulp treatment ( IPT ) for cariously involved immature permanent teeth ; and innovative treatment options including pulpal revascularization and regeneration .
Results were analyzed with chi2 tests .
Comparisons of presymposium and postsymposium responses and between the 2 groups of attendees indicated that the pediatric dentistry and endodontic communities agree that formocresol will be replaced as a primary tooth pulpotomy agent , that mineral trioxide is the first choice to take its place , that IPT in primary teeth holds hope as a replacement for pulpotomy , and that IPT is an acceptable pulp therapy technique for cariously involved young permanent teeth .
Both groups believe that pulp revascularization and regeneration will be viable treatment modalities in the future .
The AAE and the AAPD are positioned to begin preparation of best practice guidelines that share common language and treatment recommendations for pulp therapies performed by both specialties .
The role of platelet - derived endothelial cell growth factor / thymidine phosphorylase in tumor behavior .
Platelet - derived endothelial cell growth - factor ( PD - ECGF ) is similar to the pyrimidine enzyme thymidine phosphorylase ( TP ) .
A high TP expression at tumor sites is correlated with tumor growth , induction of angiogenesis , and metastasis .
Therefore , high TP is most likely associated with a poor prognosis .
TP is not only expressed in tumor cells but also in tumor surrounding tissues , such as tumor infiltrating macrophages .
TP catalyzes the conversion of thymidine to thymine and doxyribose - 1 - phosphate ( dR - 1 - P ) .
The latter in its parent form or in its sugar form , deoxyribose ( dR ) may play a role in the induction of angiogenesis .
It may modulate cellular energy metabolism or be a substrate in a chemical reaction generating reactive oxygen species .
L - deoxyribose ( L - dR ) and thymidine phosphorylase inhibitor ( TPI ) can reverse these effects .
The mechanism of TP induction is not yet completely clear , but TNF , IL10 and other cytokines have been clearly shown to induce its expression .
The various complex interactions of TP give it an essential role in cellular functioning and , hence , it is an ideal target in cancer therapy .
Reversal of the malignant phenotype of ovarian cancer A2780 cells through transfection with wild - type PTEN gene .
OBJECTIVE : PTEN ( phosphatase and tensin homologue deleted on chromosome 10 ) is a tumor suppressor gene identified on human chromosome 10q23 .
Substantial studies have demonstrated that PTEN can inhibit cell proliferation , migration and invasion of many cancer cells .
The purpose of this study was to determine whether upregulation of PTEN gene by transfection wild - type PTEN gene to ovarian cancer cells can inhibit growth and migration and to explore the potential for PTEN gene therapy of ovarian cancers .
METHOD : Wild - type and phosphatase - inactive ( C124A ) PTEN plasmids were transfected into ovarian epithelial cancer A2780 cells , and their effects on cell apoptosis , cell proliferation , cell migration and cell invasion were analyzed by flow cytometry analysis , TUNEL assay , MTT assay , wound - healing assay and transwell assay .
RESULTS : Both wild - type and mutant PTEN can upregulate the expression of PTEN gene dramatically ; however , it is wild - type PTEN not phosphatase - inactive PTEN that can induce apoptosis and decrease cell migration , invasion and proliferation in ovarian cancer cells .
CONCLUSION : These results demonstrated that PTEN had played an important role in the cell proliferation , cell migration and invasion dependent on its phosphatase activity .
Enhanced expression of PTEN by gene transfer is sufficient to reverse the malignant phenotype of ovarian cancer cells and transfection of ovarian cancer cells with wild - type PTEN gene might be another novel approach for therapeutic intervention in ovarian cancer .
Allogeneic injection of fetal membrane - derived mesenchymal stem cells induces therapeutic angiogenesis in a rat model of hind limb ischemia .
Bone marrow - derived mesenchymal stem cells ( BM - MSC ) have been demonstrated to be an attractive therapeutic cell source for tissue regeneration and repair .
However , it remains unknown whether or not allogeneic transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells ( MSC ) derived from fetal membranes ( FM ) , which are generally discarded as medical waste after delivery , has therapeutic potential .
FM - MSC were obtained from Lewis rats and had surface antigen expression and multipotent potential partly similar to those of BM - MSC .
Compared with BM - MSC , FM - MSC secreted a comparable amount of hepatocyte growth factor despite a small amount of vascular endothelial growth factor .
FM - MSC and BM - MSC both expressed major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) class I but not MHC class II antigens and did not elicit allogeneic lymphocyte proliferation in mixed lymphocyte culture .
FM - MSC or BM - MSC obtained from Lewis rats were injected into a MHC - mismatched August - Copenhagen - Irish rat model of hind limb ischemia .
Three weeks after injection , blood perfusion and capillary density were significantly higher in the FM - MSC and BM - MSC groups than in the phosphate - buffered saline group , and allogeneic FM - MSC and BM - MSC were still observed .
In nonischemic hind limb tissues , allogeneic FM - MSC and BM - MSC injection were associated with a comparatively small amount of T lymphocyte infiltration , compared with the injection of allogeneic splenic lymphocytes .
In conclusion , allogeneic FM - MSC injection did not elicit a lymphocyte proliferative response and provided significant improvement in a rat model of hind limb ischemia , comparable to the response to BM - MSC .
Thus , allogeneic injection of FM - MSC may be a new therapeutic strategy for the treatment of severe peripheral vascular disease .
Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest is found at the end of this article .
Regulation of the Warburg effect in early - passage breast cancer cells .
Malignancy in cancer is associated with aerobic glycolysis ( Warburg effect ) evidenced by increased trapping of [ ( 18 ) F ] deoxyglucose ( FdG ) in patients imaged by positron emission tomography ( PET ) .
[ ( 18 ) F ] deoxyglucose uptake correlates with glucose transporter ( GLUT - 1 ) expression , which can be regulated by hypoxia - inducible factor 1 alpha ( HIF - 1alpha ) .
We have previously reported in established breast lines that HIF - 1alpha levels in the presence of oxygen leads to the Warburg effect .
However , glycolysis and GLUT - 1 can also be induced independent of HIF - 1alpha by other factors , such as c - Myc and phosphorylated Akt ( pAkt ) .
This study investigates HIF - 1alpha , c - Myc , pAkt , and aerobic glycolysis in low - passage breast cancer cells under the assumption that these represent the in vivo condition better than established lines .
Similar to in vivo FdG - PET or primary breast cancers , rates of glycolysis were diverse , being higher in cells expressing both c - Myc and HIF - 1alpha and lower in cell lines low or negative in both transcription factors .
No correlations were observed between glycolytic rates and pAkt levels .
Two of 12 cell lines formed xenografts in mice .
Both were positive for HIF - 1alpha and phosphorylated c - Myc , and only one was positive for pAkt .
Glycolysis was affected by pharmacological regulation of c - Myc and HIF - 1alpha .
These findings suggest that c - Myc and / or HIF - 1alpha activities are both involved in the regulation of glycolysis in breast cancers .
Intracerebral grafting of cultured autologous skin fibroblasts into the rat striatum : an assessment of graft size and ultrastructure .
To identify a suitable donor cell population for gene therapy applications to the central nervous system , primary fibroblasts isolated from skin biopsies and maintained in culture are employed as autologous cells for intracerebral grafting within the adult rat striatum .
Results from the present investigation reveal that cultured primary skin fibroblasts cease to proliferate once they reach confluence ; these cells are thus contact inhibited in vitro .
Following implantation within the striatum , the volume of the primary fibroblast grafts , stained immunohistochemically for fibronectin , does not differ significantly at 3 and 8 weeks .
The graft size is dependent on the density of the cell suspension , but not dependent on either the number of passages the cells are taken through in culture prior to grafting or on the postoperative survival period .
Ultrastructural evidence reveals that at 8 weeks the grafts are composed primarily of collagen and fibroblasts with rough endoplasmic reticulum and vesicles .
Reactive astrocytic processes and phagocytic cells are also present in the grafts .
The grafts are extensively vascularized with capillaries composed of nonfenestrated endothelium ; intercellular junctions are evident at sites of apposition between endothelial cells .
It is concluded that primary skin fibroblasts are able to survive for at least 8 weeks following intracerebral implantation and continue to synthesize collagen and fibronectin in vivo .
Also , the grafts maintain a constant volume between 3 and 8 weeks , thereby indicating that primary skin fibroblasts do not produce tumors .
Finally , dynamic host - to - graft interactions - - including phagocytic migration , astrocytic hypertrophy and infiltration within the grafts , and angiogenesis - - are features that constitute the structural integration of primary skin fibroblasts grafted within the adult rat central nervous system .
Angiogenesis associated with visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissue in severe human obesity .
OBJECTIVE : The expansion of adipose tissue is linked to the development of its vasculature .
However , the regulation of adipose tissue angiogenesis in humans has not been extensively studied .
Our aim was to compare the angiogenesis associated with subcutaneous adipose tissue ( SAT ) and visceral adipose tissue ( VAT ) from the same obese patients in an in vivo model .
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS : Adipose tissue samples from visceral ( VAT ) and subcutaneous ( SAT ) sites , obtained from 36 obese patients ( mean BMI 46 . 5 kg / m ( 2 ) ) during bariatric surgery , were layered on chick chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) .
RESULTS : Both SAT and VAT expressed angiogenic factors without significant difference for vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression .
Adipose tissue layered on CAM stimulated angiogenesis .
Angiogenic stimulation was macroscopically detectable , with engulfment of the samples , in 39 % and was evidenced by angiography in 59 % of the samples .
A connection between CAM and adipose tissue vessels was evidenced by immunohistochemistry , with recruitment of both avian and human endothelial cells .
The angiogenic potency of adipose tissue was not related to its localization ( with an angiogenic stimulation in 60 % of SAT samples and 61 % of VAT samples ) or to adipocyte size or inflammatory infiltrate assessed in adipose samples before the graft on CAM .
Stimulation of angiogenesis by adipose tissue was nearly abolished by bevacizumab , which specifically targets human VEGF .
CONCLUSIONS : We have established a model to study the regulation of angiogenesis by human adipose tissue .
This model highlighted the role of VEGF in angiogenesis in both SAT and VAT .
M - CSF signals through the MAPK / ERK pathway via Sp1 to induce VEGF production and induces angiogenesis in vivo .
BACKGROUND : M - CSF recruits mononuclear phagocytes which regulate processes such as angiogenesis and metastases in tumors .
VEGF is a potent activator of angiogenesis as it promotes endothelial cell proliferation and new blood vessel formation .
Previously , we reported that in vitro M - CSF induces the expression of biologically - active VEGF from human monocytes .
METHODOLOGY AND RESULTS : In this study , we demonstrate the molecular mechanism of M - CSF - induced VEGF production .
Using a construct containing the VEGF promoter linked to a luciferase reporter , we found that a mutation reducing HIF binding to the VEGF promoter had no significant effect on luciferase production induced by M - CSF stimulation .
Further analysis revealed that M - CSF induced VEGF through the MAPK / ERK signaling pathway via the transcription factor , Sp1 .
Thus , inhibition of either ERK or Sp1 suppressed M - CSF - induced VEGF at the mRNA and protein level .
M - CSF also induced the nuclear localization of Sp1 , which was blocked by ERK inhibition .
Finally , mutating the Sp1 binding sites within the VEGF promoter or inhibiting ERK decreased VEGF promoter activity in M - CSF - treated human monocytes .
To evaluate the biological significance of M - CSF induced VEGF production , we used an in vivo angiogenesis model to illustrate the ability of M - CSF to recruit mononuclear phagocytes , increase VEGF levels , and enhance angiogenesis .
Importantly , the addition of a neutralizing VEGF antibody abolished M - CSF - induced blood vessel formation .
CONCLUSION : These data delineate an ERK - and Sp1 - dependent mechanism of M - CSF induced VEGF production and demonstrate for the first time the ability of M - CSF to induce angiogenesis via VEGF in vivo .
PI3K / Akt - dependent transcriptional regulation and activation of BMP - 2 - Smad signaling by NF - kappaB in metastatic prostate cancer cells .
BACKGROUND : Bone morphogenetic proteins ( BMPs ) exert osteoinductive effects in prostate cancer ( PC ) via uncharacterized mechanisms .
In this study , we investigated whether the nuclear transcription factor NF - kappaB , implicated in PC metastasis , is involved in transcriptional regulation and activation of BMP - 2 or BMP - 4 / Smad signaling in PC cells .
METHODS : NF - kappaB inhibition was achieved by IkappaBalpha super - repressor adenoviral vector and activation was monitored by EMSA and reporter assays .
BMP expression and activation was measured by PCR and reporter assays .
Promoter binding assay was performed by chromatin immunoprecipitation ( ChIP ) assay .
Smad1 / 5 / 8 phosphorylation was measured by Western blot analysis .
RESULTS : PCR and chimeric BMP - 2 and BMP - 4 luciferase assays demonstrate that NF - kappaB confers robust and selective activation of BMP - 2 in p65 overexpressing or rhTNF - alpha - stimulated PC cells .
Inhibition of NF - kappaB significantly reduced transcript levels and autocrine production of BMP - 2 by rhTNF - alpha stimulated C4 - 2B cells and to a lesser extent by the parental LNCaP cells .
Selective inhibition of PI3K / Akt suppressed the NF - kappaB - induced BMP - 2 promoter activity .
Furthermore , suppression of NF - kappaB activation decreased the transcript levels and BMP - 2 - induced phosphorylation of Smad1 / 5 / 8 , critical downstream targets of BMP - 2 signaling in PC cells .
Notably , the activation of BMPRII by BMP - 2 is required for modulation of Smad activation by NF - kappaB in PC cells .
Based on ChIP analysis , the transcriptional regulation of BMP - 2 gene by NF - kappaB may be partially attributed to binding to kappab site on the BMP - 2 promoter .
CONCLUSIONS : The data suggest that PI3K / Akt - NF - kappaB axis may promote PC bone metastasis in part by regulating transcription and activation of the BMP - 2 - Smad signaling cascade in osteotropic PC cells .
A novel integrin alpha5beta1 antagonistic peptide , A5 - 1 , screened by Protein Chip system as a potent angiogenesis inhibitor .
Integrin alpha5beta1 immobilized on a ProteoChip was used to screen new antagonistic peptides from multiple hexapeptide sub - libraries of the positional scanning synthetic peptide combinatorial library ( PS - SPCL ) .
The integrin alpha5beta1 - Fibronectin interaction was demonstrated on the chip .
A novel peptide ligand , A5 - 1 ( VILVLF ) , with high affinity to integrin alpha5beta1 was identified from the hexapeptide libraries with this chip - based screening method on the basis of a competitive inhibition assay .
A5 - 1 inhibits the integrin - fibronectin interaction in a dose - dependent manner ( IC ( 50 ) ; 1 . 56 + / - 0 . 28 microM .
In addition , it inhibits human umbilical vein endothelial cell proliferation , migration , adhesion , tubular network formation , and bFGF - induced neovascularization in a chick chorioallantoic membrane .
These results suggest that A5 - 1 will be a potent inhibitor of neovascularization .
Evaluation of electrical stimulation for ischemic wound therapy : a feasibility study using the lapine wound model .
Chronic wounds are a major secondary complication for many people with impaired mobility .
Electrical stimulation ( ES ) has been recommended as a adjunctive therapy , however optimal treatment paradigms have not been established .
Our group seeks to determine the basic mechanisms underlying ES wound therapy , an area where understanding is currently limited .
A feasibility study was carried out to develop the Ahn / Mustoe lapine wound model for systematic investigation of the effects of electrical stimulation on ischemic wound therapy .
A standardized surgical procedure incorporated a hybrid stimulation system comprising an implantable mini - stimulator and surface electrodes , with creation of repeatable ischemic wounds .
Twenty mature male New Zealand white rabbits ( 3 kg weight ) were employed to evaluate the effects of two empirically selected stimulation paradigms applied continuously for 7 - 21 days , using each animal as its own control .
Outcomes measures included transcutaneous blood gas levels , histology , total RNA content and analysis of alpha2 ( I ) collagen ( COL - I ) , type IV collagen ( COL - IV ) , alpha1 ( V ) collagen ( COL - V ) , and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression using real - time quantitative PCR .
All markers for stimulated wounds showed increased activity relative to non - stimulated control wounds between 7 and 14 days following injury , with peak activity at 14 days .
By 21 days post - injury , all activity had returned to near baseline level .
VEGF and COL - IV levels were found to be significantly higher for pattern A ( 110 mus pulse width ) compared to pattern B ( 5 mus pulse width ) at 14 days , implying that pattern A may be more effective at promoting angiogenesis .
All wounds were fully re - epithelialized by 10 days post - injury .
Both COL - I and COL - V showed statistically significant ( P less than 0 . 05 ) increased activity between day 7 and day 14 for pattern A , potentially indicating a continued effect on matrix remodeling .
The early closure of all wounds implies that the rabbit ear model may not be valid for chronic wound studies .
VEGF , angiopoietin - 1 and - 2 in bronchial asthma : new molecular targets in airway angiogenesis and microvascular remodeling .
Airway angiogenesis and microvascular remodeling are known features of bronchial asthma , but the mechanisms of these structural alterations are just beginning to be elucidated .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , one of the most potent angiogenic factors , stimulates endothelial cell proliferation and induces the angiogenesis .
Recently , considerable attentions have been devoted to the physiological roles of angiopoietin ( Ang ) - 1 and - 2 as regulatory factors of VEGF .
Ang - 1 has been shown to induce the migration and sprouting of endothelial cells , and coexpression of Ang - 1 and VEGF enhanced angiogenesis .
In the presence of high levels of VEGF , Ang - 2 also promotes rapid increase in capillary diameter , remodeling of the basal lamina , proliferation and migration of endothelial cells , and stimulates sprouting of new blood vessels .
Thus , VEGF , Ang - 1 and - 2 may play complementary and coordinated roles in airway angiogenesis and microvascular remodeling , and these structural changes are potentially reversible by therapeutic intervention .
The scope of the present review is to discuss from a clinical point of view the potential interactions between VEGF and angiopoietins in the asthmatic airways , and focus on the therapeutic implications targeting for these angiogenic factors .
Recently , there is an increasing number of patents which have been focused on the inhibitors of VEGF action .
These inhibitors are directed towards the receptors of VEGF or intracellular substrates for the receptors .
We will also discuss several patents regarding inhibitors of VEGF action in the present review .
Effect of transplanted mesenchymal stem cells from rats of different ages on the improvement of heart function after acute myocardial infarction .
BACKGROUND : Mesenchymal stem cells ( MSCs ) transplantation is of therapeutic potential after ischemic injury in both experimental and clinical studies .
Clinically , elderly patients are more vulnerable to acute myocardial infarction ( AMI ) .
But little is known about the characteristics of young donor - derived MSCs transplanted to old patients with AMI .
The present study was designed to investigate the effect of transplanted MSCs from rats of different ages on the improvement of heart function after AMI .
METHODS : MSCs from Sprague - Dawley ( SD ) rats were isolated and cultured in vitro .
The apoptosis characteristics of MSCs were observed under conditions of ischemia and anoxia .
SD rats underwent MI received intramyocardial injection of MSCs from young donor rats ( n = 8 ) , old donor rats ( n = 8 ) , respectively .
AMI control group received equal volume physiological saline .
Immunofluorescence was used to observe the differentiation of the grafted cells into cardiomyocytes .
Four weeks after cell transplantation , reverse transcriptase - polymerase chain reaction ( RT - PCR ) and immunohistochemistry for vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , VIII - factor immunohistochemistry for vessel density , TUNEL , caspase - 3 for cardiomyocyte apoptosis , echocardiography and hemodynamic detection for heart function were performed .
RESULTS : The apoptosis rate of the old donor - derived MSCs group was significantly higher than that of the young donor - derived MSCs group under conditions of ischemia and anoxia ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
Engrafted MSCs survived , proliferated and differentiated into myocardium - like cells .
VEGF gene expression and capillary density in the old donor - derived group were lower than those in the young donor - derived group but higher than those in the control group ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
The transplantation of old donor - derived MSCs attenuated apoptosis of cardiomyocytes in the peri - infarct region compared with the control group and the effect was elevated in young donor - derived MSCs ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
The heart functions ( left ventricle ejection fraction ( LVEF ) , left ventricle fractional shortening ( LVFS ) ) were improved more significantly in the old donor - derived MSCs group than in the control group and the heart function in the young donor - derived MSCs group further improved ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
CONCLUSIONS : Young donor - derived MSCs can improve heart function significantly through angiogenesis and decreasing cardiomyocyte apoptosis when transplanted to the infarcted area .
Clinical significance of chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter - transcription factor II expression in human colorectal cancer .
Chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter - transcription factor II ( COUP - TFII ) plays an essential role in angiogenesis and development .
A previous study showed that the expression of COUP - TFII enhanced invasiveness of human lung carcinoma cells .
However , no published data are available concerning the biological and clinical significance of COUP - TFII expression in colorectal cancer .
Thus , our objective was to explore the expression of COUP - TFII in colorectal cancer as well as its association with clinicopathological features , and to evaluate the role of COUP - TFII as a prognostic indicator in colorectal cancer .
We investigated the presence of COUP - TFII in human colorectal cancer tissues and adjacent normal tissues from 95 primary colorectal cancer patients by immunohistochemistry .
The correlation between the expression of COUP - TFII and clinicopathologic features was investigated .
The 3 - year disease - free survival ( DFS ) and overall survival ( OS ) of patients with tumors expressing different levels of COUP - TFII were evaluated by the Kaplan - Meier method .
No significant correlation was found between COUP - TFII expression and age at surgery , gender , histopathologic differentiation , vessel invasion , carcinoembryonic antigen ( CEA ) , or nodal involvement .
However , survival analysis showed that the COUP - TFII - positive group had a significantly better OS compared to COUP - TFII - negative group ( 80 . 4 % vs . 57 . 7 % , P = 0 . 0491 ) .
Based on our results , COUP - TFII may represent a biomarker for good prognosis in colorectal cancer .
Homeostatic functions of the p53 tumor suppressor : regulation of energy metabolism and antioxidant defense .
The p53 tumor suppressor plays pivotal role in the organism by supervising strict compliance of individual cells to needs of the whole organisms .
It has been widely accepted that p53 acts in response to stresses and abnormalities in cell physiology by mobilizing the repair processes or by removing the diseased cells through initiating the cell death programs .
Recent studies , however , indicate that even under normal physiological conditions certain activities of p53 participate in homeostatic regulation of metabolic processes and that these activities are important for prevention of cancer .
These novel functions of p53 help to align metabolic processes with the proliferation and energy status , to maintain optimal mode of glucose metabolism and to boost the energy efficient mitochondrial respiration in response to ATP deficiency .
Additional activities of p53 in non - stressed cells tune up the antioxidant defense mechanisms reducing the probability of mutations caused by DNA oxidation under conditions of daily stresses .
The deficiency in the p53 - mediated regulation of glycolysis and mitochondrial respiration greatly accounts for the deficient respiration of the predominance of aerobic glycolysis in cancer cells ( the Warburg effect ) , while the deficiency in the p53 - modulated antioxidant defense mechanisms contributes to mutagenesis and additionally boosts the carcinogenesis process .
Involvement of PTEN promoter methylation in cerebral cavernous malformations .
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE : Cerebral cavernous malformations ( CCMs ) are prevalent cerebral vascular lesions involving aberrant angiogenesis .
However , the underlying mechanism is poorly understood .
Phosphatase and tension homolog deleted on chromosome 10 ( PTEN ) , a tumor suppressor , is frequently deficient in various pathologies due to mutation or epigenetic alterations .
PTEN promoter hypermethylation is a major epigenetic silencing mechanism leading to activation of angiogenesis in tumors .
The present study aimed to investigate whether PTEN promoter methylation was involved in CCMs .
METHODS : PTEN promoter methylation was detected in surgical specimens of CCMs ( n = 69 ) by methylation - specific polymerase chain reaction .
The methylation status was correlated to the clinical manifestations and to PTEN expression , which was analyzed by both Western blot and immunohistochemistry .
To investigate the endothelial proliferation and the potential signaling pathways affected by PTEN methylation , proliferating cell nuclear antigen as well as phosphor - Akt and phosphor - Erk1 , 2 were detected by immunofluorescence and Western blot , respectively , in CCM specimens .
RESULTS : Methylation - specific polymerase chain reaction revealed PTEN promoter methylation in 15 . 9 % CCMs .
Strikingly , 5 of 6 familial CCMs showed PTEN promoter methylation ( 83 . 3 % ) , which was significantly higher than in sporadic cases ( 9 . 4 % ; P < 0 . 001 ) .
In addition , PTEN promoter methylation appeared more frequently in multiple CCMs , including familial cases ( 46 . 7 % ) , than that in single - lesioned CCMs ( 11 . 8 % ; P < 0 . 05 ) .
Immunostaining and Western blot revealed a more significant PTEN downregulation in PTEN - methylated CCMs in comparison to PTEN - unmethylated CCMs .
Reduced PTEN expression was inversely correlated to the expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen and to the activation of Erk1 , 2 , but not of Akt .
CONCLUSIONS : We reported here for the first time the involvement of PTEN promoter methylation in CCMs , particularly in familial CCMs , suggesting this epigenetic alteration as a potential pathomechanism of CCMs .
The identification of Erk1 , 2 as triggered signaling in the lesions may be valuable for the development of effective therapy for this disease .
Aflibercept ( AVE0005 ) : an alternative strategy for inhibiting tumour angiogenesis by vascular endothelial growth factors .
BACKGROUND : Aberrant angiogenesis is a landmark feature in cancer , which is important for proliferation , growth and metastasis , and is mediated by various pro - angiogenic factors .
The VEGF pathway is one of the most important and best - studied angiogenic pathways .
Inhibition of this pathway may provide clinical benefits to cancer patients .
OBJECTIVES : Strategies to inhibit the VEGF pathway , including antibodies to VEGF , antibodies to the extracellular domain of VEGFR - 1 or VEGFR - 2 , decoy receptors for VEGF and tyrosine kinase inhibitors of VEGFRs , are summarized .
METHODS : This review outlines and compares the latest development of these strategies , with emphasis on aflibercept , a novel decoy fusion protein of domain 2 of VEGFR - 1 and domain 3 of VEGFR - 2 with the Fc fragment of IgG1 .
RESULTS : Aflibercept was shown to have early clinical activity .
Multiple studies are ongoing to determine the clinical benefits of aflibercept in cancer patients .
The effect of perfluorocarbon - based artificial oxygen carriers on tissue - engineered trachea .
The biological effect of the perfluorocarbon - based artificial oxygen carrier ( Oxygent ) was investigated in tissue - engineered trachea ( TET ) construction .
Media supplemented with and without 10 % Oxygent were compared in all assessments .
Partial tissue oxygen tension ( PtO ( 2 ) ) was measured with polarographic microprobes ; epithelial metabolism was monitored by microdialysis inside the TET epithelium perfused with the medium underneath .
Chondrocyte - DegraPol constructs were cultured for 1 month with the medium before glycosaminoglycan assessment and histology .
Tissue reaction of TET epithelial scaffolds immersed with the medium was evaluated on the chick embryo chorioallantoic membrane .
Oxygent perfusion medium increased the TET epithelial PtO ( 2 ) ( 51 . 2 + / - 0 . 3 mm Hg vs . 33 . 4 + / - 0 . 3 mm Hg at 200 microm thickness ; 12 . 5 + / - 0 . 1 mm Hg vs . 3 . 1 + / - 0 . 1 mm Hg at 400 microm thickness , p less than 0 . 01 ) and decreased the lactate concentration ( 0 . 63 + / - 0 . 08 vs . 0 . 80 + / - 0 . 06 mmol / L , p less than 0 . 05 ) , lactate / pyruvate ( 1 . 87 + / - 0 . 26 vs . 3 . 36 + / - 10 . 13 , p less than 0 . 05 ) , and lactate / glucose ratios ( 0 . 10 + / - 0 . 00 vs . 0 . 29 + / - 0 . 14 , p less than 0 . 05 ) .
Chondrocyte - DegraPol in Oxygent group presented lower glycosaminoglycan value ( 0 . 03 + / - 0 . 00 vs . 0 . 13 + / - 0 . 00 , p less than 0 . 05 ) ; histology slides showed poor acid mucopolysaccharides formation .
Orthogonal polarization spectral imaging showed no difference in functional capillary density between the scaffolds cultured on chorioallantoic membranes .
The foreign body reaction was similar in both groups .
We conclude that Oxygent increases TET epithelial PtO ( 2 ) , improves epithelial metabolism , does not impair angiogenesis , and tends to slow cartilage tissue formation .
The semaphorin 7A receptor Plexin C1 is lost during melanoma metastasis .
The transformation of normal melanocytes , or melanocyte stem cells , to melanoma , is a complex process involving multiple mechanisms .
Loss of tumor suppressor proteins , which function as brakes on cell growth , migration , or cell survival , was recognized early on as an important mechanism for initiation and progression of melanoma .
Semaphorins and their cognate receptors , Plexins and neuropilins , are involved in neuronal pathfinding , immune function , and tumor progression through effects on blood vessel growth and cell migration .
Semaphorin 7A ( Sema7A ) is a membrane - linked semaphorin that is expressed by human keratinocytes , and we have shown that Sema7A binds to human melanocytes through beta1 - integrins and the Plexin C1 receptor .
Functional studies showed that Sema7A stimulates cytoskeletal reorganization in human melanocytes , resulting in adhesion and dendrite formation .
Downstream targets of Plexin C1 signaling in human melanocytes include cofilin and LIM kinase II , both of which are critical mediators of cell adhesion and migration .
In this report , we analyzed the expression of Plexin C1 using immunohistochemistry on sections of primary and matched metastatic lesions from 19 subjects and in a large melanoma tumor microarray .
Our data show a significant loss of Plexin C1 in metastatic melanoma compared with primary melanoma , suggesting the possibility that the Plexin C1 receptor is a tumor suppressor protein for melanoma .
Coagulation function in patients with pancreatic carcinoma .
BACKGROUND : The coagulation function in patients with pancreatic carcinoma is abnormal and the reason is not very clear .
In this study , we retrospectively analyzed the coagulation function in patients with pancreatic carcinoma .
METHODS : From June 2004 to December 2007 , 132 patients received diagnosis and treatment in our hospital .
The coagulative parameters including the prothrombin time , activated partial thromboplastin time , and fibrinogen levels were collected and studied retrospectively .
RESULTS : The average fibrinogen levels in patients with pancreatic carcinoma , ( 476 . 21 + / - 142 . 05 ) mg / dl , were significantly higher than in patients with cholangiolithiasis , ( 403 . 28 + / - 126 . 41 ) mg / dl ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
In patients with pancreatic carcinoma , the levels of fibrinogen in the group with jaundice were significantly higher than in patients without jaundice ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
In patients who received Pancreaticoduodenectomy , Whipple ' s operation , the level of fibrinogen in the group with local invasiveness was significantly higher than in the group without invasiveness .
The group with lymphatic metastasis had higher levels than the group without lymphatic metastasis ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
There was no significant difference of intraoperative blood loss between patients with vitamin K , ( 748 . 27 + / - 448 . 51 ) ml , and those without vitamin K , ( 767 . 31 + / - 547 . 89 ) ml ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
CONCLUSIONS : The level of fibrinogen in patients with pancreatic carcinoma was elevated .
The elevated fibrinogen level may be associated with invasiveness and lymphatic metastasis .
Using vitamin K in perioperation management did not reduce intraoperative blood loss .
Molecular analysis of genetic instability caused by chronic inflammation .
Genetic instability is a hallmark of human cancers .
It is the driving force for tumor development as it facilitates the accumulation of mutations in genes that regulate cell death and proliferation and therefore promotes malignant transformation .
Chronic inflammation is a common underlying condition for human tumor development , accounting for approximately 20 % of human cancers .
TNFalpha is an important inflammation cytokine and is crucial to the development of inflammation - associated cancers .
We have shown that TNFalpha can cause DNA damages through reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) .
TNFalpha treatment in cultured cells resulted in increased gene mutations , gene amplification , micronuclei formation and chromosomal instability .
Antioxidants significantly reduced TNFalpha - induced genetic damage .
In addition , TNFalpha treatment alone led to increased malignant transformation of mouse embryo fibroblasts , which could be partially suppressed by antioxidants .
Therefore , genetic instability plays an important role in inflammation - associated cancers .
PTTG overexpression promotes lymph node metastasis in human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma .
Human pituitary tumor transforming gene ( PTTG ) overexpression correlates with metastasis in multiple tumors , and yet its molecular mechanisms of action remain elusive .
We detected PTTG overexpression in 66 % ( 111 of 169 ) of primary esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( ESCC ) tumor tissues by in situ hybridization .
PTTG overexpression correlated with lymph node metastasis ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Ectopic PTTG overexpression in a representative ESCC cell line , EC9706 , increased in vitro cell migration and invasion and promoted in vivo lymph node metastasis .
Suppressing PTTG expression by siRNA decreased cell motility in both PTTG - HA / EC9706 and KYSE150 cells .
By using mass spectrometric analysis , we identified that PTTG up - regulated S100A4 and galectin - 1 secretion and down - regulated tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 2 secretion to the culture media .
PTTG induced S100A4 and galectin - 1 mRNA and protein expression as assessed by Western blot and reverse transcription - PCR .
Attenuating galectin - 1 expression by siRNA constrained PTTG - HA / EC9706 cell motility ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
PTTG activated E - box transcription and induced c - Myc protein expression in EC9706 cells , which in turn may act on an E - box motif within the galectin - 1 promoter .
Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays further confirmed specific c - Myc binding to galectin - 1 promoter .
PTTG - induced galectin - 1 transactivation and expression were mediated by c - Myc , and both inductions were suppressed by c - Myc RNAi cotranfection .
These findings elucidate the molecular mechanisms of PTTG overexpression in promoting tumor metastasis , whereby up - regulated PTTG modulates expression and secretion of metastasis - related factors to facilitate cell motility .
Characterization of the metabolic changes underlying growth factor angiogenic activation : identification of new potential therapeutic targets .
Angiogenesis is a fundamental process to normal and abnormal tissue growth and repair , which consists of recruiting endothelial cells toward an angiogenic stimulus .
The cells subsequently proliferate and differentiate to form endothelial tubes and capillary - like structures .
Little is known about the metabolic adaptation of endothelial cells through such a transformation .
We studied the metabolic changes of endothelial cell activation by growth factors using human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) , [ 1 , 2 - ( 13 ) C ( 2 ) ] - glucose and mass isotopomer distribution analysis .
The metabolism of [ 1 , 2 - ( 13 ) C ( 2 ) ] - glucose by HUVEC allows us to trace many of the main glucose metabolic pathways , including glycogen synthesis , the pentose cycle and the glycolytic pathways .
So we established that these pathways were crucial to endothelial cell proliferation under vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and fibroblast growth factor ( FGF ) stimulation .
A specific VEGF receptor - 2 inhibitor demonstrated the importance of glycogen metabolism and pentose cycle pathway .
Furthermore , we showed that glycogen was depleted in a low glucose medium , but conserved under hypoxic conditions .
Finally , we demonstrated that direct inhibition of key enzymes to glycogen metabolism and pentose phosphate pathways reduced HUVEC viability and migration .
In this regard , inhibitors of these pathways have been shown to be effective antitumoral agents .
To sum up , our data suggest that the inhibition of metabolic pathways offers a novel and powerful therapeutic approach , which simultaneously inhibits tumor cell proliferation and tumor - induced angiogenesis .
Rab GTPase regulation of VEGFR2 trafficking and signaling in endothelial cells .
OBJECTIVE : Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 ( VEGFR2 ) is a receptor tyrosine kinase that regulates vascular physiology .
However , mechanism ( s ) by which VEGFR2 signaling and trafficking is coordinated are not clear .
Here , we have tested endocytic Rab GTPases for regulation of VEGFR2 trafficking and signaling linked to endothelial cell migration .
METHODS AND RESULTS : Quiescent VEGFR2 displays endosomal localization and colocalization with the Rab5a GTPase , an early endosome fusion regulator .
Expression of GTP or GDP - bound Rab5a mutants block activated VEGFR2 trafficking and degradation .
Manipulation of Rab7a GTPase activity associated with late endosomes using overexpression of wild - type or mutant proteins blocks activated VEGFR2 trafficking and degradation .
Depletion of Rab7a decreased VEGFR2 Y1175 phosphorylation but increased p42 / 44 ( pERK1 / 2 ) MAPK phosphorylation .
Endothelial cell migration was increased by Rab5a depletion but decreased by Rab7a depletion .
CONCLUSIONS : Rab5a and Rab7a regulate VEGFR2 trafficking toward early and late endosomes .
Our data suggest that VEGFR2 - mediated regulation of endothelial function is dependent on different but specific Rab - mediated GTP hydrolysis activity required for endosomal trafficking .
FOXO3a elicits a pro - apoptotic transcription program and cellular response to human lung carcinogen nicotine - derived nitrosaminoketone ( NNK ) .
Long - term carcinogen exposure exerts continuous pressure on key mechanisms that repair or eliminate carcinogen - damaged cells giving rise to selective failures that contribute to lung cancer .
FOXO3a is a transcription factor that elicits a protective response to diverse cellular stresses .
Although implicated as a tumor suppressor , its role in sporadic cancer is uncertain .
We recently observed that FOXO3a gene inactivation occurs frequently in carcinogen - induced lung adenocarcinoma ( LAC ) .
This suggests that FOXO3a may play a role in LAC suppression by eliciting a protective response to carcinogenic stress .
Here we investigated this possibility by examining the role of FOXO3a in the cellular response to nicotine - derived nitrosaminoketone ( NNK ) , a lung carcinogen implicated as a cause of human LAC .
We show that restoration of FOXO3a in FOXO3a - deficient LAC cells increases sensitivity to apoptosis caused by a DNA - damaging intermediate of NNK .
Prior to this cellular outcome , FOXO3a is functionally activated and mediates a large - scale transcription program in response to this damage involving a significant modulation of 440 genes .
Genes most significantly represented in this program are those with roles in cell growth and proliferation > protein synthesis > gene expression > cell death > cell cycle .
The results of this study show that FOXO3a directs an anti - carcinogenic transcription program that culminates in the elimination of carcinogen - damaged cells .
This suggests that FOXO3a is a potential suppressor of carcinogenic damage in LAC .
Bmi - 1 over - expression in neural stem / progenitor cells increases proliferation and neurogenesis in culture but has little effect on these functions in vivo .
The polycomb gene Bmi - 1 is required for the self - renewal of stem cells from diverse tissues , including the central nervous system ( CNS ) .
Bmi - 1 expression is elevated in most human gliomas , irrespective of grade , raising the question of whether Bmi - 1 over - expression is sufficient to promote self - renewal or tumorigenesis by CNS stem / progenitor cells .
To test this we generated Nestin - Bmi - 1 - GFP transgenic mice .
Analysis of two independent lines with expression in the fetal and adult CNS demonstrated that transgenic neural stem cells formed larger colonies , more self - renewing divisions , and more neurons in culture .
However , in vivo , Bmi - 1 over - expression had little effect on CNS stem cell frequency , subventricular zone proliferation , olfactory bulb neurogenesis , or neurogenesis / gliogenesis during development .
Bmi - 1 transgenic mice were born with enlarged lateral ventricles and a minority developed idiopathic hydrocephalus as adults , but none of the transgenic mice formed detectable CNS tumors , even when aged .
The more pronounced effects of Bmi - 1 over - expression in culture were largely attributable to the attenuated induction of p16 ( Ink4a ) and p19 ( Arf ) in culture , proteins that are generally not expressed by neural stem / progenitor cells in young mice in vivo .
Bmi - 1 over - expression therefore has more pronounced effects in culture and does not appear to be sufficient to induce tumorigenesis in vivo .
Erbb2 suppresses DNA damage - induced checkpoint activation and UV - induced mouse skin tumorigenesis .
The Erbb2 receptor is activated by UV irradiation , the primary cause of non - melanoma skin cancer .
We hypothesized that Erbb2 activation contributes to UV - induced skin tumorigenesis by suppressing cell cycle arrest .
Consistent with this hypothesis , inhibition of Erbb2 in v - ras ( Ha ) transgenic mice before UV exposure resulted in both 56 % fewer skin tumors and tumors that were 70 % smaller .
Inhibition of the UV - induced activation of Erbb2 also resulted in milder epidermal hyperplasia , S - phase accumulation , and decreased levels of the cell cycle regulator Cdc25a , suggesting altered cell cycle regulation on inhibition of Erbb2 .
Further investigation using inhibition or genetic deletion of Erbb2 in vitro revealed reduced Cdc25a levels and increased S - phase arrest in UV - irradiated cells lacking Erbb2 activity .
Ectopic expression of Cdc25a prevented UV - induced S - phase arrest in keratinocytes lacking Erbb2 activity , demonstrating that maintenance of Cdc25a by Erbb2 suppresses cell cycle arrest .
Examination of checkpoint pathway activation upstream of Cdc25a revealed Erbb2 activation did not alter Ataxia Telangiectasia and Rad3 - related / Ataxia Telangiectasia Mutated activity but increased inhibitory phosphorylation of Chk1 - Ser ( 280 ) .
Since Akt phosphorylates Chk1 - Ser ( 280 ) , the effect of Erbb2 on phosphatidyl inositol - 3 - kinase ( PI3K ) / Akt signaling during UV - induced cell cycle arrest was determined .
Erbb2 ablation reduced the UV - induced activation of PI3K while inhibition of PI3K / Akt increased UV - induced S - phase arrest .
Thus , UV - induced Erbb2 activation increases skin tumorigenesis through inhibitory phosphorylation of Chk1 , Cdc25a maintenance , and suppression of S - phase arrest via a PI3K / Akt - dependent mechanism .
The EGFR - GEP100 - Arf6 - AMAP1 signaling pathway specific to breast cancer invasion and metastasis .
Tumors are tissue - specific diseases , and their mechanisms of invasion and metastasis are highly diverse .
In breast cancer , biomarkers that specifically correlate with the invasive phenotypes have not been clearly identified .
A small GTPase Arf6 primarily regulates recycling of plasma membrane components .
We have shown that Arf6 and its effector AMAP1 ( DDEF1 , DEF1 , ASAP1 and centaurin beta4 ) are abnormally overexpressed in some breast cancers and used for their invasion and metastasis .
Overexpression of these proteins is independent of the transcriptional upregulation of their genes , and occurs only in highly malignant breast cancer cells .
We recently identified GEP100 ( BRAG2 ) to be responsible for the Arf6 activation to induce invasion and metastasis , by directly binding to ligand - activated epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) .
A series of our studies revealed that for activation of the invasion pathway of EGFR , it is prerequisite that Arf6 and AMAP1 both are highly overexpressed , and that EGFR is activated by ligands .
Pathological analyses indicate that a significant large population of human ductal cancers may utilize the EGFR - GEP100 - Arf6 - AMAP1 pathway for their malignancy .
Microenvironments have been highly implicated in the malignancy of mammary tumors .
Our results reveal an aspect of the precise molecular mechanisms of some breast cancers , in which full invasiveness is not acquired just by intracellular alterations of cancer cells , but extracellular factors from microenvironments may also be necessary .
Possible translation of our knowledge to cancer therapeutics will also be discussed .
Met amplification and tumor progression in Cdkn2a - deficient melanocytes .
While many genetic alterations have been identified in melanoma , the relevant molecular events that contribute to disease progression are poorly understood .
Most primary human melanomas exhibit loss of expression of the CDKN2A locus in addition to activation of the canonical mitogen - activated protein kinase signaling pathway .
In this study , we used a Cdkn2a - deficient mouse melanocyte cell line to screen for secondary genetic events in melanoma tumor progression .
Upon investigation , intrachromosomal gene amplification of Met , a receptor tyrosine kinase implicated in melanoma progression , was identified in Cdkn2a - deficient tumors .
RNA interference targeting Met in these tumor cells resulted in a significant delay in tumor growth in vivo compared with the control cells .
MET expression is rarely detected in primary human melanoma but is frequently observed in metastatic disease .
This study validates a role for Met activation in melanoma tumor progression in the context of Cdkn2a deficiency .
Activated platelets enhance ovarian cancer cell invasion in a cellular model of metastasis .
Increased platelet counts and systemic coagulation activation are associated with ovarian cancer progression .
Platelet activation occurs in the tumor microenvironment and may influence local invasion and metastasis .
We used a cellular model of tumor invasion to investigate the effect of activated platelets on the human ovarian cancer cell line , SKOV3 .
SKOV3 cells were exposed to washed , thrombin receptor activating peptide ( TRAP ) - activated or TRAP - naive platelets under various experimental conditions , and tumor cell invasion was assayed in Matrigel chambers .
The effect of platelets on the content of urokinase plasminogen activator ( uPA ) and VEGF in SKOV3 cell conditioned medium was measured using an ELISA assay .
TRAP - activated platelets stimulated a dose - dependent increase in SKOV3 cell invasion .
Exposure to activated platelet membranes and to soluble proteins contained in activated platelet releasate both contributed to the observed increase in invasion .
The inhibition of platelet activation with prostaglandin E1 ( PGE ( 1 ) ) attenuated the invasive capacity of SKOV3 cells .
Exposure to platelets resulted in significantly increased uPA and VEGF content of SKOV3 cell conditioned medium .
Activated platelets enhance SKOV3 human ovarian cancer cell invasion through Matrigel and increase the amount of uPA and VEGF secreted into SKOV3 cell conditioned medium .
If generalizable to additional cell lines and human disease , this observation may partially explain the adverse prognosis associated with thrombocytosis in ovarian cancer .
Platelets , therefore , may represent a potential target for therapeutic intervention in human ovarian cancer .
AngiomiRs - - key regulators of angiogenesis .
The formation of new blood vessels through the process of angiogenesis is critical in vascular development and homeostasis .
Aberrant angiogenesis leads to a variety of diseases , such as ischemia and cancer .
Recent studies have revealed important roles for miRNAs in regulating endothelial cell ( EC ) function , especially angiogenesis .
Mice with EC - specific deletion of Dicer , a key enzyme for generating miRNAs , display defective postnatal angiogenesis .
Specific miRNAs ( angiomiRs ) have recently been shown to regulate angiogenesis in vivo .
miRNA - 126 , an EC - restricted miRNA , regulates vascular integrity and developmental angiogenesis .
miR - 378 , miR - 296 , and the miR - 17 - 92 cluster contribute to tumor angiogenesis .
Manipulating angiomiRs in the settings of pathological vascularization represents a new therapeutic approach .
Promoting angiogenesis via manipulation of VEGF responsiveness with notch signaling .
Promoting angiogenesis via delivery of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and other angiogenic factors is both a potential therapy for cardiovascular diseases and a critical aspect for tissue regeneration .
The recent demonstration that VEGF signaling is modulated by the Notch signaling pathway , however , suggests that inhibiting Notch signaling may enhance regional neovascularization , by altering the responsiveness of local endothelial cells to angiogenic stimuli .
We tested this possibility with in vitro assays using human endothelial cells , as well as in a rodent hindlimb ischemia model .
Treatment of cultured human endothelial cells with DAPT , a gamma secretase inhibitor , increased cell migration and sprout formation in response to VEGF stimulation with a biphasic dependence on DAPT concentration .
Further , delivery of an appropriate combination of DAPT and VEGF from an injectable alginate hydrogel system into ischemic hindlimbs led to a faster recovery of blood flow than VEGF or DAPT alone ; perfusion levels reached 80 % of the normal level by week 4 with combined DAPT and VEGF delivery .
Direct intramuscular or intraperitoneal injection of DAPT did not result in the same level of improvement , suggesting that appropriate presentation of DAPT ( gel delivery ) is important for its activity .
DAPT delivery from the hydrogels also did not lead to any adverse side effects , in contrast to systemic introduction of DAPT .
Altogether , these results suggest a new approach to promote angiogenesis by controlling Notch signaling , and may provide new options to treat patients with diseases that diminish angiogenic responsiveness .
[ Activation of sterol regulatory element binding protein and its involvement in endothelial cell migration ]
OBJECTIVE : To study the activation of sterol regulatory element binding protein ( SREBP ) and its critical role in endothelial cell migration .
METHODS : Bovine aortic endothelial cells ( ECs ) were cultured .
The expression of SREBP and Cdc42 were determined by Western blot and quantitative real - time PCR .
Moreover , outward growth migration model and transwell chamber assay were used to detect ECs migration .
RESULTS : ( 1 ) SREBP was activated during ECs migration .
Western blot analysis demonstrated increased active form SREBP in migrating as compared to non - migrating ECs population .
SREBP activation decreased as ECs migration slowed ; ( 2 ) Coincidental with SREBP activation , mRNA expression of its target genes such as low density lipoprotein receptor , HMG - CoA reductase , and fatty acid synthase also increased in migrating ECs population as detected by real - time PCR ; ( 3 ) Migration induced SREBP activation in ECs was inhibited by SREBP - acting protein RNAi and pharmacologically by 25 - hydroxycholesterol ; ( 4 ) Inhibition of SREBP led to decreased ECs migration in various models ; ( 5 ) Cells genetically deficient in SREBP - acting protein , S1P , or S2P , phenotypically exhibited impaired migration ; ( 6 ) SREBP inhibition in ECs suppressed the activity of small GTPase Cdc42 , a key molecule for ECs motility .
CONCLUSIONS : SREBP is activated during and plays a critical role in ECs migration .
Targeting SREBP could become a novel approach in fighting diseases involving abnormal ECs migration .
Fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 - positive fibroblasts provide a suitable microenvironment for tumor development and progression in esophageal carcinoma .
PURPOSE : Tumor fibroblasts ( TF ) have been suggested to play an essential role in the complex process of tumor - stroma interactions and tumorigenesis .
The aim of the present study was to investigate the specific role of TF in the esophageal cancer microenvironment .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : An Affymetrix expression microarray was used to compare gene expression profiles between six pairs of TFs and normal fibroblasts from esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( ESCC ) .
Differentially expressed genes were identified , and a subset was evaluated by quantitative real - time PCR and immunohistochemistry .
RESULTS : About 43 % ( 126 of 292 ) of known deregulated genes in TFs were associated with cell proliferation , extracellular matrix remodeling , and immune response .
Up - regulation of fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 ( FGFR2 ) , which showed the most significant change , was detected in all six tested TFs compared with their paired normal fibroblasts .
A further study found that FGFR2 - positive fibroblasts were only observed inside the tumor tissues and not in tumor - surrounding stromal tissues , suggesting that FGFR2 could be used as a TF - specific marker in ESCC .
Moreover , the conditioned medium from TFs was found to be able to promote ESCC tumor cell growth , migration , and invasion in vitro .
CONCLUSIONS : Our study provides new candidate genes for the esophageal cancer microenvironment .
Based on our results , we hypothesize that FGFR2 ( + ) - TFs might provide cancer cells with a suitable microenvironment via secretion of proteins that could promote cancer development and progression through stimulation of cancer cell proliferation , induction of angiogenesis , inhibition of cell adhesion , enhancement of cell mobility , and promotion of the epithelial - mesenchymal transition .
[ Role of the tumor suppressor ARF in oncogenesis ]
The paper reviews the data available in the literature on a role of the tumor suppressor ARF in oncogenesis and considers the structure of a gene encoding ARF protein .
The p53 - dependent and p - 53 - independent functions of this protein are under many studies .
There is evidence for the implication of ARF in angiogenesis .
There is more and more information on the role of ARF in the regulation of a cell cycle , apoptosis , and autophagy .
The importance of this tumor suppressor in the mechanisms of carcinogenesis is beyond question as the inactivation of ARF suppressor activity leads to the rapid growth of neoplasia .
However , the exact mechanisms of ARF action yet remain unclear and require further studies by different specialists at both the molecular genetic and other levels of investigation .
Mechanical regulation of the proangiogenic factor CCN1 / CYR61 gene requires the combined activities of MRTF - A and CREB - binding protein histone acetyltransferase .
Smooth muscle - rich tissues respond to mechanical overload by an adaptive hypertrophic growth combined with activation of angiogenesis , which potentiates their mechanical overload - bearing capabilities .
Neovascularization is associated with mechanical strain - dependent induction of angiogenic factors such as CCN1 , an immediate - early gene - encoded matricellular molecule critical for vascular development and repair .
Here we have demonstrated that mechanical strain - dependent induction of the CCN1 gene involves signaling cascades through RhoA - mediated actin remodeling and the p38 stress - activated protein kinase ( SAPK ) .
Actin signaling controls serum response factor ( SRF ) activity via SRF interaction with the myocardin - related transcriptional activator ( MRTF ) - A and tethering to a single CArG box sequence within the CCN1 promoter .
Such activity was abolished in mechanically stimulated mouse MRTF - A ( - / - ) cells or upon inhibition of CREB - binding protein ( CBP ) histone acetyltransferase ( HAT ) either pharmacologically or by siRNAs .
Mechanical strain induced CBP - mediated acetylation of histones 3 and 4 at the SRF - binding site and within the CCN1 gene coding region .
Inhibition of p38 SAPK reduced CBP HAT activity and its recruitment to the SRF . MRTF - A complex , whereas enforced induction of p38 by upstream activators ( e . g . MKK3 and MKK6 ) enhanced both CBP HAT and CCN1 promoter activities .
Similarly , mechanical overload - induced CCN1 gene expression in vivo was associated with nuclear localization of MRTF - A and enrichment of the CCN1 promoter with both MRTF - A and acetylated histone H3 .
Taken together , these data suggest that signal - controlled activation of SRF , MRTF - A , and CBP provides a novel connection between mechanical stimuli and angiogenic gene expression .
Angiogenesis in platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule - 1 - null mice .
Platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule ( PECAM ) - 1 has been previously implicated in endothelial cell migration ; additionally , anti - PECAM - 1 antibodies have been shown to inhibit in vivo angiogenesis .
Studies were therefore performed with PECAM - 1 - null mice to further define the involvement of PECAM - 1 in blood vessel formation .
Vascularization of subcutaneous Matrigel implants as well as tumor angiogenesis were both inhibited in PECAM - 1 - null mice .
Reciprocal bone marrow transplants that involved both wild - type and PECAM - 1 - deficient mice revealed that the impaired angiogenic response resulted from a loss of endothelial , but not leukocyte , PECAM - 1 .
In vitro wound migration and single - cell motility by PECAM - 1 - null endothelial cells were also compromised .
In addition , filopodia formation , a feature of motile cells , was inhibited in PECAM - 1 - null endothelial cells as well as in human endothelial cells treated with either anti - PECAM - 1 antibody or PECAM - 1 siRNA .
Furthermore , the expression of PECAM - 1 promoted filopodia formation and increased the protein expression levels of Cdc42 , a Rho GTPase that is known to promote the formation of filopodia .
In the developing retinal vasculature , numerous , long filamentous filopodia , emanating from endothelial cells at the tips of angiogenic sprouts , were observed in wild - type animals , but to a lesser extent in the PECAM - 1 - null mice .
Together , these data further establish the involvement of endothelial PECAM - 1 in angiogenesis and suggest that , in vivo , PECAM - 1 may stimulate endothelial cell motility by promoting the formation of filopodia .
Desipramine inhibits the growth of a mouse skin squamous cell carcinoma cell line and affects glucocorticoid receptor - mediated transcription .
The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of tricyclic antidepressant desipramine ( DMI ) on the growth inhibition and translocation of the glucocorticoid receptor ( GR ) from the cytoplasm to the nucleus in cancerous and noncancerous cell lines and the effect of DMI on GR - mediated transcription .
Nontumorigenic , immortalized keratinocytes cell line ( 3PC ) , papilloma ( MT1 / 2 ) , and squamous cell carcinoma ( Ca3 / 7 ) cell lines were initially used to study the cell growth inhibition by DMI .
Although , the growth of all three cell lines was suppressed by DMI , it was more effective in Ca3 / 7 cells .
Therefore , we next examined the effect of DMI on Ca3 / 7 cells , resistant to growth inhibition by the synthetic glucocorticoid fluocinolone acetonide ( FA ) .
DMI inhibited cell proliferation in a time - dependent manner .
The translocation of GR was induced by FA alone , DMI alone , and combination of both agents .
FA induced GR - mediated transcription in Ca3 / 7 cells transfected with a luciferase reporter gene under the control of glucocorticoid response element ( GRE ) , but DMI alone did not affect GR - mediated transcription .
However , DMI inhibited FA - induced , GR - mediated transcription when both agents were given together .
Pretreatment with DMI followed by combination of DMI and FA decreased GR - mediated transcription more than pretreatment with FA .
The expression of metallothionein - 1 ( Mt - 1 ) gene , which is regulated by GR , was induced significantly by the combination of DMI and FA , and enhanced significantly by pretreatment with FA but not DMI .
DMI is suggested to inhibit the growth of Ca3 / 7 cells and to affect GR - mediated transcription .
MEK5 / ERK5 signaling modulates endothelial cell migration and focal contact turnover .
The formation of new blood vessels from pre - existing ones requires highly coordinated restructuring of endothelial cells ( EC ) and the surrounding extracellular matrix .
Directed EC migration is a central step in this process and depends on cellular signaling cascades that initiate and control the structural rearrangements .
On the basis of earlier findings that ERK5 deficiency in mouse EC results in massive defects in vessel architecture , we focused on the impact of the MEK5 / ERK5 signaling pathway on EC migration .
Using a retroviral gene transfer approach , we found that constitutive activation of MEK5 / ERK5 signaling strongly inhibits EC migration and results in massive morphological changes .
The area covered by spread EC was dramatically enlarged , accompanied by an increase in focal contacts and altered organization of actin filaments .
Consequently , cells were more rigid and show reduced motility .
This phenotype was most likely based on decreased focal contact turnover caused by reduced expression of p130Cas , a key player in directed cell migration .
We demonstrate for the first time that ERK5 signaling not only is involved in EC survival and stress response but also controls migration and morphology of EC .
EPOX inhibits angiogenesis by degradation of Mcl - 1 through ERK inactivation .
PURPOSE : Antiangiogenic therapy is considered as an effective strategy for controlling the growth and metastasis of tumors .
Among a myriad of biological activities described for xanthone derivatives , the anticancer activity is quite remarkable , but the molecular mechanism is not clearly resolved .
In the present study , we investigated the antiangiogenic mechanism of 3 , 6 - di ( 2 , 3 - epoxypropoxy ) xanthone ( EPOX ) , a novel Mcl - 1 targeting drug .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : To evaluate the antiangiogenic activity of EPOX , we did cell viability , cell cycle , tube formation assay in vitro , and Matrigel plug assay in vivo .
To evaluate the effect of EPOX on the endothelial signaling pathway , we did immunoblotting , immunoprecipitation , and immunofluorescence analysis .
Intracellular glutathione levels were determined with the use of monochlorobimane , a glutathione - specific probe .
RESULTS : EPOX induced endothelial cell apoptosis in association with proteasome - dependent Mcl - 1 degradation .
Down - regulation of Mcl - 1 resulted in an increase in Mcl - 1 - free Bim , activation of Bax , and then signaling of mitochondria - mediated apoptosis .
Additionally , glutathione depletion and extracellular signal - regulated kinase ( ERK ) inactivation was observed in EPOX - treated cells .
Glutathione supplementation reversed the inhibitory effects of EPOX on ERK , which increases the phosphorylation of Mcl - 1 at T ( 163 . ) Overexpression of mitogen - activated protein / ERK kinase ( MEK ) partially reversed the effect of EPOX on Mcl - 1 dephosphorylation , ubiquitination , and degradation , further implicating ERK in the regulation of Mcl - 1 stability .
CONCLUSIONS : This study provides evidence that EPOX induces glutathione depletion , ERK inactivation , and Mcl - 1 degradation on endothelial cells , which leads to inhibition of angiogenesis .
Our results suggest that EPOX is a novel antiangiogenic agent , making it a promising lead compound for further development in the treatment of angiogenesis - related pathologies .
Targeting angiogenesis : progress with anti - VEGF treatment with large molecules .
Angiogenesis - - one of the hallmarks of cancer - - has emerged as a valid therapeutic target in oncology .
The VEGF system represents a key mediator of tumor - initiated angiogenesis and the first target of antiangiogenesis agents introduced in clinical practice .
Although anti - VEGF therapies have clearly demonstrated antitumor efficacy in various malignancies , especially when combined with conventional cytotoxic chemotherapy , their mechanism of action is not fully understood .
This Review will discuss the rationale for using antiangiogenic compounds and will focus on large molecules , such as antibodies , that target the VEGF system .
Clinical data on bevacizumab is discussed in detail .
Predictive markers for anti - VEGF agents have not yet been identified and questions regarding the usefulness of bevacizumab in the adjuvant setting as well as its continued use beyond progression remain unanswered , in spite of negative data on bevacizumab in treating patients with adjuvant colon cancer .
Nonetheless , anti - VEGF therapy has enhanced the arsenal of anticancer therapies and has provided new insights into the biology of malignancy .
[ Ambiguity role of neutrophils in oncogenesis ]
The review is focused on the participation of polymorphonuclear granulocytes ( neutrophils ) in development and spreading of a tumor .
We consider both the well known functions of neutrophils ( degranulation , production of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) ) and the recently shown one ( presentation of an antigene ) .
The special attention is focused on the ambiguity of the neutrophil role in oncogenesis .
The dominant view is that neutrophils display exclusively antitumor properties .
The update information testifies about protumoral activity of neutrophils : they migrate to a tumor and promote angiogenesis and metastasis at late stages of the tumor .
It is interesting that certain components of neutrophil cytotoxic arsenal ( ROS , cytokines , specific enzymes ) participate both in antitumoral defenses of an organism and protumoral activity .
Endothelial cell migration and vascular endothelial growth factor expression are the result of loss of breast tissue polarity .
Recruiting a new blood supply is a rate - limiting step in tumor progression .
In a three - dimensional model of breast carcinogenesis , disorganized , proliferative transformed breast epithelial cells express significantly higher expression of angiogenic genes compared with their polarized , growth - arrested nonmalignant counterparts .
Elevated vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) secretion by malignant cells enhanced recruitment of endothelial cells ( EC ) in heterotypic cocultures .
Significantly , phenotypic reversion of malignant cells via reexpression of HoxD10 , which is lost in malignant progression , significantly attenuated VEGF expression in a hypoxia - inducible factor 1alpha - independent fashion and reduced EC migration .
This was due primarily to restoring polarity : forced proliferation of polarized , nonmalignant cells did not induce VEGF expression and EC recruitment , whereas disrupting the architecture of growth - arrested , reverted cells did .
These data show that disrupting cytostructure activates the angiogenic switch even in the absence of proliferation and / or hypoxia and restoring organization of malignant clusters reduces VEGF expression and EC activation to levels found in quiescent nonmalignant epithelium .
These data confirm the importance of tissue architecture and polarity in malignant progression .
Metronomic 5 - fluorouracil , oxaliplatin and irinotecan in colorectal cancer .
Metronomic chemotherapy ( the frequent , long term , low dose administration of chemotherapeutic drugs ) is a promising therapy because it enhances the anti - endothelial activity of conventional chemotherapeutics , but with lower or no toxic effects compared to maximum tolerated dose administration .
The aims of the present study were to compare , in vitro and in vivo , the antiangiogenic and antitumor activities of metronomic irinotecan ( CPT - 11 ) , oxaliplatin ( L - OHP ) and 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) in colorectal cancer and to investigate the metronomic combination of these drugs .
In vitro cell proliferation , combination studies and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) secretion analyses were performed on endothelial ( HMVEC - d ) and colorectal cancer ( HT - 29 ) cells exposed for 144 h to metronomic concentrations of SN - 38 , the active metabolite of CPT - 11 , L - OHP and 5 - FU .
HT - 29 human colorectal cancer xenograft model was used and tumour growth , microvessel density and VEGF quantification were performed in tumours after the administration of metronomic CPT - 11 , L - OHP , 5 - FU and their simultaneous combination .
Low concentrations of SN - 38 , but not 5 - FU and L - OHP , preferentially inhibited endothelial cell proliferation .
Simultaneous and continuous exposure of HT - 29 and HMVEC - d cells to low concentrations SN - 38 + L - OHP + 5 - FU for 144 h showed a strong antagonism and an unfavorable dose - reduction index .
Moreover , the ternary combination resulted in a significant increase of VEGF secretion in HT - 29 cancer cells .
In a xenograft model metronomic CPT - 11 , but not 5 - FU and L - OHP , significantly inhibits HT - 29 tumor growth and microvessel density in the absence of toxicity .
On the contrary , metronomic 5 - FU + L - OHP + CPT - 11 therapy did not affect the microvascular count .
The metronomic concept might not universally apply to every cytotoxic drug in colorectal cancer and metronomic combination regimens should be used with caution .
A key role for the integrin alpha2beta1 in experimental and developmental angiogenesis .
The alpha2beta1 integrin receptor plays a key role in angiogenesis .
Here we investigated the effects of small molecule inhibitors ( SMIs ) designed to disrupt integrin alpha2 I or beta1 I - like domain function on angiogenesis .
In unchallenged endothelial cells , fibrillar collagen induced robust capillary morphogenesis .
In contrast , tube formation was significantly reduced by SMI496 , a beta1 I - like domain inhibitor and by function - blocking anti - alpha2beta1 but not - alpha1beta1 antibodies .
Endothelial cells bound fluorescein - labeled collagen I fibrils , an interaction specifically inhibited by SMI496 .
Moreover , SMI496 caused cell retraction and cytoskeletal collapse of endothelial cells as well as delayed endothelial cell wound healing .
SMI activities were examined in vivo by supplementing the growth medium of zebrafish embryos expressing green fluorescent protein under the control of the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 2 promoter .
SMI496 , but not a control compound , interfered with angiogenesis in vivo by reversibly inhibiting sprouting from the axial vessels .
We further characterized zebrafish alpha2 integrin and discovered that this integrin is highly conserved , especially the I domain .
Notably , a similar vascular phenotype was induced by morpholino - mediated knockdown of the integrin alpha2 subunit .
By live videomicroscopy , we confirmed that the vessels were largely nonfunctional in the absence of alpha2beta1 integrin .
Collectively , our results provide strong biochemical and genetic evidence of a central role for alpha2beta1 integrin in experimental and developmental angiogenesis .
Islet endothelial activation and oxidative stress gene expression is reduced by IL - 1Ra treatment in the type 2 diabetic GK rat .
BACKGROUND : Inflammation followed by fibrosis is a component of islet dysfunction in both rodent and human type 2 diabetes .
Because islet inflammation may originate from endothelial cells , we assessed the expression of selected genes involved in endothelial cell activation in islets from a spontaneous model of type 2 diabetes , the Goto - Kakizaki ( GK ) rat .
We also examined islet endotheliuml / oxidative stress ( OS ) / inflammation - related gene expression , islet vascularization and fibrosis after treatment with the interleukin - 1 ( IL - 1 ) receptor antagonist ( IL - 1Ra ) .
METHODOLOGY / PRINCIPAL FINDINGS : Gene expression was analyzed by quantitative RT - PCR on islets isolated from 10 - week - old diabetic GK and control Wistar rats .
Furthermore , GK rats were treated s . c twice daily with IL - 1Ra ( Kineret , Amgen , 100 mg / kg / day ) or saline , from 4 weeks of age onwards ( onset of diabetes ) .
Four weeks later , islet gene analysis and pancreas immunochemistry were performed .
Thirty - two genes were selected encoding molecules involved in endothelial cell activation , particularly fibrinolysis , vascular tone , OS , angiogenesis and also inflammation .
All genes except those encoding angiotensinogen and epoxide hydrolase ( that were decreased ) , and 12 - lipoxygenase and vascular endothelial growth factor ( that showed no change ) , were significantly up - regulated in GK islets .
After IL - 1Ra treatment of GK rats in vivo , most selected genes implied in endothelium / OS / immune cells / fibrosis were significantly down - regulated .
IL - 1Ra also improved islet vascularization , reduced fibrosis and ameliorated glycemia .
CONCLUSIONS / SIGNIFICANCE : GK rat islets have increased mRNA expression of markers of early islet endothelial cell activation , possibly triggered by several metabolic factors , and also some defense mechanisms .
The beneficial effect of IL - 1Ra on most islet endothelial / OS / immune cells / fibrosis parameters analyzed highlights a major endothelial - related role for IL - 1 in GK islet alterations .
Thus , metabolically - altered islet endothelium might affect the beta - cell microenvironment and contribute to progressive type 2 diabetic beta - cell dysfunction in GK rats .
Counteracting islet endothelial cell inflammation might be one way to ameliorate / prevent beta - cell dysfunction in type 2 diabetes .
AVE8062 : a new combretastatin derivative vascular disrupting agent .
Angiogenesis has an essential role in promoting and supporting tumor growth and it is an important therapeutic target .
The tumor vascular network is the result of pro - angiogenic and inhibitory factors as well as of the interaction between endothelial cells and extracellular matrix .
Different antiangiogenic therapeutics have been developed to improve tumor control through vascular - targeting agents ( VTA ) .
VTAs can be divided into two groups : antiangiogenic agents and vascular - disrupting agents ( VDAs ) .
VTAs inhibit specific factors required to induce and direct the angiogenic process , with major activity against small tumor masses and at the tumor periphery , encompassing monoclonal antibodies and small molecules inhibitors of the tyrosine kinase domain of the VEGF receptor .
VDAs specifically target and destroy well - established tumor vessels with ischemia and destruction of large masses with central hemorrhagic necrosis and survival of a thin peripheral tumor layer .
VDAs can be divided into biologics , such as ligand - based , and small - molecule agents ; this second group includes small - molecule VDAs like flavonoids , such as 5 , 6 - dimethylxanthenone - 4 - acetic acid ( DMXAA ) , and microtubule - destabilizing agents .
In this review we will discuss the mechanism of action , as well as the preclinical and clinical results , of one of the most promising antitubulin agents : the combretastatin A4 - phosphate derivative , AVE8062A .
Targeting TNF for Treatment of Cancer and Autoimmunity .
Tumor necrosis factor - alpha ( TNF - alpha ) was first isolated two decades ago as a macrophageproduced protein that can effectively kill tumor cells .
TNF - alpha is also an essential component of the immune system and is required for hematopoiesis , for protection from bacterial infection and for immune cell - mediated cytotoxicity .
Extensive research , however , has revealed that TNF - alpha is one of the major players in tumor initiation , proliferation , invasion , angiogenesis and metastasis .
The proinflammatory activities link TNF - alpha with a wide variety of autoimmune diseases , including psoriasis , inflammatory bowel disease , rheumatoid arthritis , systemic sclerosis , systemic lupus erythematosus , multiple sclerosis , diabetes and ankylosing spondylitis .
Systemic inhibitors of TNF such as etanercept ( Enbrel ) ( a soluble TNF receptor ) and infliximab ( Remicade ) and adalimumab ( Humira ) ( anti - TNF antibodies ) have been approved for the treatment inflammatory bowel disease , psoriasis and rheumatoid arthritis .
These drugs , however , exhibit severe side effects and are expensive .
Hence orally active blockers of TNF - alpha that are safe , efficacious and inexpensive are urgently needed .
Numerous products from fruits , vegetable and traditional medicinal plants have been described which can suppress TNF expression and TNF signaling but their clinical potential is yet uncertain .
[ Effect of osteopontin silencing by lentivirus - mediated delivery of siRNA on glioma cell invasion and apoptosis ] .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the effect of osteopontin silencing on the invasion and apoptosis of U251 cells .
METHODS : The invasion , apoptosis and levels of uPA , MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 were determined by invasion assay , flow cytometry , Western blot and real - time fluorescence quantitative PCR respectively .
RESULTS : Osteopontin small interference RNA ( siRNA ) inhibited osteopontin expression and cell invasion , promoted apoptosis in U251 cells .
In addition , the expression of Bcl - 2 , uPA , MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 was decreased , while Bax level was elevated .
CONCLUSION : Osteopontin siRNA can inhibit U251 cells invasion via the down - regulation of uPA , MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 levels , and promote apoptosis through induction of Bax expression and inhibition of Bcl 2 level .
It suggests that osteopontin plays an important role in human glioma progression .
Magnitude of malate - aspartate reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide shuttle activity in intact respiring tumor cells .
Measurements of respiration , CO2 and lactate production , and changes in the levels of various key metabolites of the glycolytic sequence and tricarboxylic acid cycle were made on five lines of rodent ascites tumor cells ( two strains of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells , Krebs II carcinoma , AS - 30D carcinoma , and L1210 cells ) incubated aerobically in the presence of uniformly labeled D - [ 14C ] glucose .
From these data , as well as earlier evidence demonstrating that the reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide ( NADH ) shuttle in these cells requires a transaminase step and is thus identified as the malate - aspartate shuttle ( W . V . V . Greenhouse and A . L . Lehninger , Cancer Res . , 36 : 1392 - 1396 , 1976 ) , metabolic flux diagrams were constructed for the five cell lines .
These diagrams show the relative rates of glycolysis , the tricarboxylic acid cycle , electron transport , and the malate - aspartate shuttle in these tumors .
Large amounts of cytosolic NADH were oxidized by the mitochondrial respiratory chain via the NADH shuttle , comprising anywhere from about 20 to 80 % of the total flow of reducing equivalents to oxygen in these tumors .
Calculations of the sources of energy for adenosine triphosphate synthesis indicated that on the average about one - third of the respiratory adenosine triphosphate is generated by electron flow originating from cytosolic NADH via the malate - aspartate shuttle .
AKT2 is a downstream target of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 ( Grm1 ) .
We reported earlier on the oncogenic properties of Grm1 by demonstrating that stable Grm1 - mouse - melanocytic clones proliferate in the absence of growth supplement and anchorage in vitro .
In addition , these clones also exhibit aggressive tumorigenic phenotypes in vivo with short latency in tumor formation in both immunodeficient and syngeneic mice .
We also detected strong activation of AKT in allograft tumors specifically AKT2 as the predominant isoform involved .
In parallel , we assessed several human melanoma biopsy samples and found again that AKT2 was the predominantly activated AKT in these human melanoma biopsies .
In cultured stable Grm1 - mouse - melanocytic clones , as well as an metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 ( Grm1 ) expressing human melanoma cell line , C8161 , stimulation of Grm1 by its agonist led to the activation of AKT , while preincubation with Grm1 - antagonist abolished Grm1 - agonist - induced AKT activation .
In addition , a reduction in tumor volume of Grm1 - mouse - melanocytic - allografts was detected in the presence of small interfering AKT2 RNA ( siAKT2 ) .
Taken together , these results showed that , in addition to the MAPK pathway previously reported being a downstream target of stimulated Grm1 , AKT2 is another downstream target in Grm1 mediated melanocyte transformation .
Hormonal regulation and distinct functions of semaphorin - 3B and semaphorin - 3F in ovarian cancer .
Semaphorins comprise a family of molecules that influence neuronal growth and guidance .
Class - 3 semaphorins , semaphorin - 3B ( SEMA3B ) and semaphorin - 3F ( SEMA3F ) , illustrate their effects by forming a complex with neuropilins ( NP - 1 or NP - 2 ) and plexins .
We examined the status and regulation of semaphorins and their receptors in human ovarian cancer cells .
A significantly reduced expression of SEMA3B ( 83 kDa ) , SEMA3F ( 90 kDa ) , and plexin - A3 was observed in ovarian cancer cell lines when compared with normal human ovarian surface epithelial cells .
The expression of NP - 1 , NP - 2 , and plexin - A1 was not altered in human ovarian surface epithelial and ovarian cancer cells .
The decreased expression of SEMA3B , SEMA3F , and plexin - A3 was confirmed in stage 3 ovarian tumors .
The treatment of ovarian cancer cells with luteinizing hormone , follicle - stimulating hormone , and estrogen induced a significant upregulation of SEMA3B , whereas SEMA3F was upregulated only by estrogen .
Cotreatment of cell lines with a hormone and its specific antagonist blocked the effect of the hormone .
Ectopic expression of SEMA3B or SEMA3F reduced soft - agar colony formation , adhesion , and cell invasion of ovarian cancer cell cultures .
Forced expression of SEMA3B , but not SEMA3F , inhibited viability of ovarian cancer cells .
Overexpression of SEMA3B and SEMA3F reduced focal adhesion kinase phosphorylation and matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and matrix metalloproteinase - 9 expression in ovarian cancer cells .
Forced expression of SEMA3F , but not SEMA3B in ovarian cancer cells , significantly inhibited endothelial cell tube formation .
Collectively , our results suggest that the loss of SEMA3 expression could be a hallmark of cancer progression .
Furthermore , gonadotropin - and / or estrogen - mediated maintenance of SEMA3 expression could control ovarian cancer angiogenesis and metastasis .
Tobacco smoke promotes lung tumorigenesis by triggering IKKbeta - and JNK1 - dependent inflammation .
Chronic exposure to tobacco smoke , which contains over 60 tumor - initiating carcinogens , is the major risk factor for development of lung cancer , accounting for a large portion of cancer - related deaths worldwide .
It is well established that tobacco smoke is a tumor initiator , but we asked whether it also acts as a tumor promoter once malignant initiation , such as caused by K - ras activation , has taken place .
Here we demonstrate that repetitive exposure to tobacco smoke promotes tumor development both in carcinogen - treated mice and in transgenic mice undergoing sporadic K - ras activation in lung epithelial cells .
Tumor promotion is due to induction of inflammation that results in enhanced pneumocyte proliferation and is abrogated by IKKbeta ablation in myeloid cells or inactivation of JNK1 .
Dose - and time - dependent effects of doxorubicin on cytotoxicity , cell cycle and apoptotic cell death in human colon cancer cells .
The cytostatic drug doxorubicin is a well - known chemotherapeutic agent which is used in treatment of a wide variety of cancers .
A key factor in the response of cancer cells to chemotherapeutic drugs is the activation of the apoptotic pathway , a pathway that is often impaired in chemoresistant colon cancer cells .
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of doxorubicin in Hct - 116 human colon carcinoma cells in order to clarify if a time / concentration range for optimal doxorubicin - induced apoptosis exists .
We compared a treatment schedule were cells were bolus incubated for 3h with doxorubicin followed by 24h in drug - free medium , with a continuous doxorubicin treatment schedule for 24h .
Bolus incubation was carried out to determine effects of doxorubicin accumulated during the first 3h , whereas continuous incubation allowed further ( continuous ) exposure to doxorubicin .
We found that bolus ( 3h ) treatment with doxorubicin resulted in a dose - dependent decrease of viable cells and concomitant increase of apoptosis .
Additionally , bolus ( 3h ) doxorubicin incubation led to phosphorylation of p53 at serine 392 , induction of p21 , G2 arrest and increase of proapoptotic protein Bax .
In contrast , continuous ( 24h ) treatment with doxorubicin reduced the number of living cells with no parallel raise in the amount of dead cells .
Continuous ( 24h ) treatment with 5 microM doxorubicin resulted in cell cycle arrest in G0 / G1 phase that was neither accompanied by phosphorylation and activation of p53 nor enhanced expression of p21 .
These results suggest that doxorubicin is able to induce cell death by apoptosis only at particular dose and treatment conditions and imply a completely different cellular response following bolus or continuous exposure to doxorubicin .
Lactate - dehydrogenase 5 is overexpressed in non - small cell lung cancer and correlates with the expression of the transketolase - like protein 1 .
AIMS : As one of the five lactate dehydrogenase ( LDH ) isoenzymes , LDH5 has the highest efficiency to catalyze pyruvate transformation to lactate .
LDH5 overexpression in cancer cells induces an upregulated glycolytic metabolism and reduced dependence on the presence of oxygen .
Here we analyzed LDH5 protein expression in a well characterized large cohort of primary lung cancers in correlation to clinico - pathological data and its possible impact on patient survival .
METHODS : Primary lung cancers ( n = 269 ) and non neoplastic lung tissue ( n = 35 ) were tested for LDH5 expression by immunohistochemistry using a polyclonal LDH5 antibody ( ab53010 ) .
The results of LDH5 expression were correlated to clinico - pathological data as well as to patient ' s survival .
In addition , the results of the previously tested transketolase like 1 protein ( TKTL1 ) expression were correlated to LDH5 expression .
RESULTS : 89 . 5 % ( n = 238 ) of NSCLC revealed LDH5 expression whereas LDH5 expression was not detected in non neoplastic lung tissues ( n = 34 ) ( p < 0 . 0001 ) .
LDH5 overexpression was associated with histological type ( adenocarcinoma = 57 % , squamous cell carcinoma = 45 % , large cell carcinoma = 46 % , p = 0 . 006 ) .
No significant correlation could be detected with regard to TNM - stage , grading or survival .
A two sided correlation between the expression of TKTL1 and LDH5 could be shown ( p = 0 . 002 ) within the overall cohort as well as for each grading and pN group .
A significant correlation between LDH5 and TKTL1 within each histologic tumortype could not be revealed .
CONCLUSIONS : LDH5 is overexpressed in NSCLC and could hence serve as an additional marker for malignancy .
Furthermore , LDH5 correlates positively with the prognostic marker TKTL1 .
Our results confirm a close link between the two metabolic enzymes and indicate an alteration in the glucose metabolism in the process of malignant transformation .
Telomere / telomerase interplay in virus - driven and virus - independent lymphomagenesis : pathogenic and clinical implications .
Telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein complex critically involved in extending and maintaining telomeres .
Unlike the majority of somatic cells , in which hTERT and telomerase activity are generally silent , normal lymphocytes show transient physiological hTERT expression and telomerase activity according to their differentiation / activation status .
During lymphomagenesis , induction of persistent telomerase expression and activity may occur before or after telomere shortening , as a consequence of the different mechanisms through which transforming factors / agents may activate telomerase .
Available data indicate that the timing of telomerase activation may allow the distinction of two different lymphomagenetic models : ( i ) an early activation of telomerase via exogenous regulators of hTERT , along with an increased lymphocyte growth and a subsequent selection of cells with increased transforming potential may characterize several virus - related lymphoid malignancies ; ( ii ) a progressive shortening of telomeres , leading to genetic instability which favors a subsequent activation of telomerase via endogenous regulators may occur in most virus - unrelated lymphoid tumors .
These models may have clinically relevant implications , particularly for the tailoring of therapeutic strategies targeting telomerase .
Betulin induces mitochondrial cytochrome c release associated apoptosis in human cancer cells .
We examined whether betulin , a naturally abundant compound , has anticancer functions in human cancer cells .
The results showed that betulin significantly inhibited cell viability in cervix carcinoma HeLa cells , hepatoma HepG2 cells , lung adenocarcinoma A549 cells , and breast cancer MCF - 7 cells with IC ( 50 ) values ranging from 10 to 15 microg / mL .
While betulin exhibited only moderate anticancer activity in other human cancer cells such as hepatoma SK - HEP - 1 cells , prostate carcinoma PC - 3 , and lung carcinoma NCI - H460 , with IC ( 50 ) values ranging from 20 to 60 microg / mL , it showed minor growth inhibition in human erythroleukemia K562 cells ( IC ( 50 ) > 100 microg / mL ) .
We further investigated the mechanism of anticancer activity by betulin , using HeLa cells as an experimental model .
Betulin ( 10 microg / mL ) induces apoptotic cell death , as evidenced by morphological characteristics such as membrane phosphatidylserine translocation , nuclear condensation / fragmentation , and apoptotic body formation .
A kinetics analysis showed that the depolarization of mitochondrial membrane potential and the release of mitochondrial cytochrome c occurred as early as 30 min after treatment with betulin .
Betulin , unlike its chemical derivative betulinic acid , did not directly trigger mitochondrial cytochrome c release in isolated mitochondria .
Importantly , Bax and Bak were rapidly translocated to the mitochondria 30 min after betulin treatment .
The sequential activation of caspase - 9 and caspase - 3 / - 7 and the cleavage of poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase ( PARP ) were observed behind those mitochondrial events .
Furthermore , specific downregulation of either caspase - 9 , Bax , or Bak by siRNA effectively reduced PARP cleavage and caspase - 3 activation .
Taken together , the lines of evidence demonstrate that betulin triggers apoptosis of human cancer cells through the intrinsic apoptotic pathway .
Adenovirus 5 E1A enhances histone deacetylase inhibitors - induced apoptosis through Egr - 1 - mediated Bim upregulation .
Histone deacetylase inhibitors ( HDACi ) are potent anti - cancer agents for variety of cancer types .
Suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid ( SAHA ) has been approved as a drug to treat cutaneous T cell lymphoma , and the combination of HDACi and other agents have been actively tested in many clinical trials .
Adenovirus 5 early region 1A ( E1A ) has been shown to exhibit high tumor suppressor activity , and gene therapy using E1A has been tested in clinical trials .
Here , we showed that proapoptotic activity of HDACi was robustly enhanced by E1A in multiple cancer cells , but not in normal cells .
Moreover , we showed that combination of E1A gene therapy and SAHA showed high therapeutic efficacy with low toxicity in vivo ovarian and breast xenograft models .
SAHA downregulated Bcl - XL and upregulated proapoptotic BH3 - only protein Bim , whose expression was further enhanced by E1A in cancer cells .
These alterations of Bcl - 2 family proteins were critical for apoptosis induced by the combination in cancer cells .
SAHA enhanced acetylation of histone H3 in Bim promoter region , while E1A upregulated Egr - 1 , which was directly involved in Bim transactivation .
Together , our results provide not only a novel insight into the mechanisms underlying anti - tumor activity of E1A , but also a rationale for the combined HDACi and E1A gene therapy in future clinical trials .
Constitutively nuclear FOXO3a localization predicts poor survival and promotes Akt phosphorylation in breast cancer .
BACKGROUND : The PI3K - Akt signal pathway plays a key role in tumorigenesis and the development of drug - resistance .
Cytotoxic chemotherapy resistance is linked to limited therapeutic options and poor prognosis .
METHODOLOGY / PRINCIPAL FINDINGS : Examination of FOXO3a and phosphorylated - Akt ( P - Akt ) expression in breast cancer tissue microarrays showed nuclear FOXO3a was associated with lymph node positivity ( p = 0 . 052 ) , poor prognosis ( p = 0 . 014 ) , and P - Akt expression in invasive ductal carcinoma .
Using tamoxifen and doxorubicin - sensitive and - resistant breast cancer cell lines as models , we found that doxorubicin - but not tamoxifen - resistance is associated with nuclear accumulation of FOXO3a , consistent with the finding that sustained nuclear FOXO3a is associated with poor prognosis .
We also established that doxorubicin treatment induces proliferation arrest and FOXO3a nuclear relocation in sensitive breast cancer cells .
Induction of FOXO3a activity in doxorubicin - sensitive MCF - 7 cells was sufficient to promote Akt phosphorylation and arrest cell proliferation .
Conversely , knockdown of endogenous FOXO3a expression reduced PI3K / Akt activity .
Using MDA - MB - 231 cells , in which FOXO3a activity can be induced by 4 - hydroxytamoxifen , we showed that FOXO3a induction up - regulates PI3K - Akt activity and enhanced doxorubicin resistance .
However FOXO3a induction has little effect on cell proliferation , indicating that FOXO3a or its downstream activity is deregulated in the cytotoxic drug resistant breast cancer cells .
Thus , our results suggest that sustained FOXO3a activation can enhance hyperactivation of the PI3K / Akt pathway .
CONCLUSIONS / SIGNIFICANCE : Together these data suggest that lymph node metastasis and poor survival in invasive ductal breast carcinoma are linked to an uncoupling of the Akt - FOXO3a signaling axis .
In these breast cancers activated Akt fails to inactivate and re - localize FOXO3a to the cytoplasm , and nuclear - targeted FOXO3a does not induce cell death or cell cycle arrest .
As such , sustained nuclear FOXO3a expression in breast cancer may culminate in cancer progression and the development of an aggressive phenotype similar to that observed in cytotoxic chemotherapy resistant breast cancer cell models .
Skin deep and deeper : multiple pathways in basal cell carcinogenesis .
This perspective places the report by Villani et al . that appears in this issue of the journal ( beginning on page 1222 ) in the context of recent work showing an intersection between two important developmental pathways implicated in oncogenesis : the hedgehog and insulin - like growth factor ( IGF ) pathways .
Villani et al . define a key role for the IGF regulatory protein Igfbp2 in a genetic model of basal cell carcinogenesis driven by targeted constitutive activation of hedgehog signaling .
Placed in the framework of other recently published work , the observations of Villani et al . both raise questions about the cell of origin for basal cell cancers and define additional putative therapeutic and preventive targets for this disease .
Brick1 is an essential regulator of actin cytoskeleton required for embryonic development and cell transformation .
Brick1 ( Brk1 ) is the less - studied component of the Wave / Scar pathway involved in the branched nucleation of actin fibers .
The clinical relevance of Brk1 is emphasized by correlative data showing that Von Hippel - Lindau ( VHL ) patients that also lose the BRK1 gene are protected against the development of tumors .
This contrasts with recent evidence suggesting that the Wave complex may function as an invasion suppressor in epithelial cancers .
Here , we show that the downregulation of Brk1 results in abnormal actin stress fiber formation and vinculin distribution and loss of Arp2 / 3 and Wave proteins at the cellular protrusions .
Brk1 is required for cell proliferation and cell transformation by oncogenes .
In addition , Brk1 downregulation results in defective directional migration and invasive growth in renal cell carcinoma cells as well as in other tumor cell types .
Finally , genetic ablation of Brk1 results in dramatic defects in embryo compaction and development , suggesting an essential role for this protein in actin dynamics .
Thus , genetic loss or inhibition of BRK1 is likely to be protective against tumor development due to proliferation and motility defects in affected cells .
Ras - association domain family 1C protein promotes breast cancer cell migration and attenuates apoptosis .
BACKGROUND : The Ras association domain family 1 ( RASSF1 ) gene is a Ras effector encoding two major mRNA forms , RASSF1A and RASSF1C , derived by alternative promoter selection and alternative mRNA splicing .
RASSF1A is a tumor suppressor gene .
However , very little is known about the function of RASSF1C both in normal and transformed cells .
METHODS : Gene silencing and over - expression techniques were used to modulate RASSF1C expression in human breast cancer cells .
Affymetrix - microarray analysis was performed using T47D cells over - expressing RASSF1C to identify RASSF1C target genes .
RT - PCR and western blot techniques were used to validate target gene expression .
Cell invasion and apoptosis assays were also performed .
RESULTS : In this article , we report the effects of altering RASSF1C expression in human breast cancer cells .
We found that silencing RASSF1C mRNA in breast cancer cell lines ( MDA - MB231 and T47D ) caused a small but significant decrease in cell proliferation .
Conversely , inducible over - expression of RASSF1C in breast cancer cells ( MDA - MB231 and T47D ) resulted in a small increase in cell proliferation .
We also report on the identification of novel RASSF1C target genes .
RASSF1C down - regulates several pro - apoptotic and tumor suppressor genes and up - regulates several growth promoting genes in breast cancer cells .
We further show that down - regulation of caspase 3 via overexpression of RASSF1C reduces breast cancer cells ' sensitivity to the apoptosis inducing agent , etoposide .
Furthermore , we found that RASSF1C over - expression enhances T47D cell invasion / migration in vitro .
CONCLUSION : Together , our findings suggest that RASSF1C , unlike RASSF1A , is not a tumor suppressor , but instead may play a role in stimulating metastasis and survival in breast cancer cells .
Role of stromal myofibroblasts in invasive breast cancer : stromal expression of alpha - smooth muscle actin correlates with worse clinical outcome .
BACKGROUND : Recently , the desmoplastic reaction has been implicated as having an important function in epithelial solid tumor biology .
There have been no reports showing the relativity of invasive breast cancer and the desmoplastic reaction by a quantitative analysis of the myofibroblasts that were an important player in the desmoplastic reaction .
The purpose of this study was to immunohistochemically investigate the correlation between the desmoplastic reaction and the clinicopathology of invasive breast cancer .
METHODS : The study included 60 patients with a known prognosis of invasive breast cancer .
We quantified the expression of alpha - SMA as a marker of myofibroblasts in the invasive breast cancer .
After staining samples for alpha - SMA , their expression was extracted and quantified as a relative percentage by computer - assisted image analysis .
RESULTS : There was relatively wide variation in the expression of alpha - SMA with the percentage of the area from 0 . 68 to 28 . 15 % ( mean 8 . 48 + / - 5 . 40 % ) .
The metastasis group showed significantly higher alpha - SMA expression compared with the no metastasis group ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
When the patients were divided into two groups according to their alpha - SMA expression using a cutoff point at the mean value of 8 . 48 % , the high alpha - SMA group had a significantly poorer overall survival rate ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
Multivariate analysis demonstrated that alpha - SMA and lymph node metastasis were identified as independent predictive factors of metastasis .
CONCLUSION : Myofibroblasts represent an important prognostic factor for invasive growth that is translated into a poor clinical prognosis for patients with invasive breast cancer .
The disintegrin - like and cysteine - rich domains of ADAM - 9 mediate interactions between melanoma cells and fibroblasts .
A characteristic of malignant cells is their capacity to invade their surrounding and to metastasize to distant organs .
During these processes , proteolytic activities of tumor and stromal cells modify the extracellular matrix to produce a microenvironment suitable for their growth and migration .
In recent years the family of ADAM proteases has been ascribed important roles in these processes .
ADAM - 9 is expressed in human melanoma at the tumor - stroma border where direct or indirect interactions between tumor cells and fibroblasts occur .
To analyze the role of ADAM - 9 for the interaction between melanoma cells and stromal fibroblasts , we produced the recombinant disintegrin - like and cysteine - rich domain of ADAM - 9 ( DC - 9 ) .
Melanoma cells and human fibroblasts adhered to immobilized DC - 9 in a Mn ( 2 + ) - dependent fashion suggesting an integrin - mediated process .
Inhibition studies showed that adhesion of fibroblasts was mediated by several beta1 integrin receptors independent of the RGD and ECD recognition motif .
Furthermore , interaction of fibroblasts and high invasive melanoma cells with soluble recombinant DC - 9 resulted in enhanced expression of MMP - 1 and MMP - 2 .
Silencing of ADAM - 9 in melanoma cells significantly reduced cell adhesion to fibroblasts .
Ablation of ADAM - 9 in fibroblasts almost completely abolished these cellular interactions and melanoma cell invasion in vitro .
In summary , these results suggest that ADAM - 9 expression plays an important role in mediating cell - cell contacts between fibroblasts and melanoma cells and that these interactions contribute to proteolytic activities required during invasion of melanoma cells .
Emerging metabolic targets in cancer therapy .
Cancer cells are different from normal cells in their metabolic properties .
Normal cells mostly rely on mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation to produce energy .
In contrast , cancer cells depend mostly on glycolysis , the aerobic breakdown of glucose into ATP .
In recent years , investigating the metabolic changes within cancer cells has been a rapidly growing area .
Emerging evidence shows that oncogenes that drive the cancer - promoting signals also drive the altered metabolism .
Although the exact mechanisms underlying the Warburg effect are unclear , the existing evidence suggests that increased glycolysis plays an important role in support malignant behavior of cancer cells .
A thorough understanding of the unique metabolism of cancer cells will help to design of more effective drugs targeting metabolic pathways , which will greatly impact the capacity to effectively treat cancer patients .
Here we provide an overview of the current understanding of the Warburg effect upon tumor cell growth and survival , and discussion on the potential metabolic targets for cancer therapy .
MTSS1 : a multifunctional protein and its role in cancer invasion and metastasis .
MTSS1 ( metastasis suppressor - 1 ) was first identified as a metastasis suppressor missing in metastatic bladder carcinoma cell lines .
The down - regulation of MTSS1 that may be caused by DNA methylation was also observed in many other types of cancer .
While accumlating evidence for the function of MTSS1 support the concept that it is unlikely to be a metastasis suppressor , but actually acts as a scaffold protein that interacts with multiple partners to regulate actin dynamics .
It has also been demonstrated that MTSS1 is involved in the Shh signaling pathway in the developing hair follicle and in basal cell carcinomas of the skin .
Such evidence indicates that MTSS1 as a multiple functional molecular player and has an important role in development , carcinogenesis and metastasis .
However , the biochemical mechanisms by which MTSS1 functions in cells and the physiological role of this protein in animals remain largely unknown .
In this review , we will discuss the current knowledge of MTSS1 ' s role in cancer metastasis , carcinogenesis , and development .
The clinical significance of MTSS1 will also be discussed .
Ras p21 onco - protein in the sera of mice carrying an experimentally induced tumor and in human cancer patients .
We have established a model system to detect the presence of ras p21 in the sera of Balb / c mice carrying tumors induced by a mouse cell line transformed with the Harvey murine sarcoma virus in the presence of a helper Friend murine leukemia virus .
As determined by ELISA and immunoblot assays , ras p21 in the serum increased with increased tumor growth .
Since ras genes have been found to be frequently activated in human tumours , we examined the levels of ras p21 in the sera of a variety of human cancer patients .
In only 3 out of 13 cases , representing patients with adenocarcinomas of the stomach receiving chemotherapy , was ras p21 detected at elevated levels , whereas in patients with the following types of cancer no substantial change in serum ras p21 was observed ; nine with breast , 5 colon , 5 lung , 5 ovarian and 5 hepatocellular carcinomas .
Serum soluble vascular adhesion protein - 1 is a valuable prognostic marker in gastric cancer .
BACKGROUND : Vascular adhesion protein - 1 ( VAP - 1 ) regulates leukocyte tissue infiltration .
Elevated serum soluble VAP - 1 ( sVAP - 1 ) levels occur in certain diseases having an inflammatory component .
We previously showed in colorectal cancer that sVAP - 1 expression is significantly higher relative to controls , and this decreased expression is associated with poor prognosis and lymph node and liver metastasis .
However , sVAP - 1 expression has not been described for gastric cancer .
This study determines the relationship between preoperative serum sVAP - 1 levels and clinicopathological features and prognosis in gastric cancer .
METHODS : Preoperative serum was collected from 107 gastric cancer patients and 33 normal controls .
sVAP - 1 levels were assayed by enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay .
RESULTS : The mean sVAP - 1 level for cancer patients was significantly higher relative to controls , and decreased with disease progression .
Tumor size , serosal invasion , lymph node metastasis , peritoneal dissemination , and TNM classification was significantly correlated with sVAP - 1 level .
sVAP - 1 is also an independent predictive marker for lymph node metastasis .
Patients having low sVAP - 1 levels had significantly poorer prognosis relative to patients having elevated sVAP - 1 in all or stages I - III gastric cancer patients , respectively .
CONCLUSIONS : Low sVAP - 1 levels are associated with poor prognosis in gastric cancer .
Determining sVAP - 1 levels may be valuable for predicting prognosis and lymph node metastasis .
Metabolic regulation by p53 .
We are increasingly aware that cellular metabolism plays a vital role in diseases such as cancer , and that p53 is an important regulator of metabolic pathways .
By transcriptional activation and other means , p53 is able to contribute to the regulation of glycolysis , oxidative phosphorylation , glutaminolysis , insulin sensitivity , nucleotide biosynthesis , mitochondrial integrity , fatty acid oxidation , antioxidant response , autophagy and mTOR signalling .
The ability to positively and negatively regulate many of these pathways , combined with feedback signalling from these pathways to p53 , demonstrates the reciprocal and flexible nature of the regulation , facilitating a diverse range of responses to metabolic stress .
Intriguingly , metabolic stress triggers primarily an adaptive ( rather than pro - apoptotic ) p53 response , and p53 is emerging as an important regulator of metabolic homeostasis .
A better understanding of how p53 coordinates metabolic adaptation will facilitate the identification of novel therapeutic targets and will also illuminate the wider role of p53 in human biology .
Use of DNA microarray and small animal positron emission tomography in preclinical drug evaluation of RAF265 , a novel B - Raf / VEGFR - 2 inhibitor .
Positron emission tomography ( PET ) imaging has become a useful tool for assessing early biologic response to cancer therapy and may be particularly useful in the development of new cancer therapeutics .
RAF265 , a novel B - Raf / vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 2 inhibitor , was evaluated in the preclinical setting for its ability to inhibit the uptake of PET tracers in the A375M ( B - Raf ( V600E ) ) human melanoma cell line .
RAF265 inhibited 2 - deoxy - 2 - [ ( 18 ) F ] fluoro - d - glucose ( FDG ) accumulation in cell culture at 28 hours in a dose - dependent manner .
RAF265 also inhibited FDG accumulation in tumor xenografts after 1 day of drug treatment .
This decrease persisted for the remaining 2 weeks of treatment .
DNA microarray analysis of treated tumor xenografts revealed significantly decreased expression of genes regulating glucose and thymidine metabolism and revealed changes in apoptotic genes , suggesting that the imaging tracers FDG , 3 - deoxy - 3 - [ ( 18 ) F ] fluorothymidine , and annexin V could serve as potential imaging biomarkers for RAF265 therapy monitoring .
We concluded that RAF265 is highly efficacious in this xenograft model of human melanoma and decreases glucose metabolism as measured by DNA microarray analysis , cell culture assays , and small animal FDG PET scans as early as 1 day after treatment .
Our results support the use of FDG PET in clinical trials with RAF265 to assess early tumor response .
DNA microarray analysis and small animal PET studies may be used as complementary technologies in drug development .
DNA microarray analysis allows for analysis of drug effects on multiple pathways linked to cancer and can suggest corresponding imaging tracers for further analysis as biomarkers of tumor response .
Systematic proteomic analysis of human hepotacellular carcinoma cells reveals molecular pathways and networks involved in metastasis .
Systematic proteomic studying of the mechanism of hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) metastasis remains challenging .
We performed comparative proteomic and pathway analysis of four human metastatic HCC cell lines to identify metastasis - associated proteins .
These HCC cell lines had a similar genetic background but with an increasing potential of metastasis .
Using a combination of two dimensional electrophoresis ( 2 - DE ) and MALDI - TOF mass spectrometry , a total of 125 proteins and their post - translational modification forms or isoforms were found to be differentially expressed in the cell lines .
Among them , 29 were gradually up - regulated whereas 17 were down - regulated with increasing metastatic potential .
Instead of a traditional single - gene readout , global bioinformatics analysis was carried out , which revealed that the glycolysis pathway was the most significantly enriched pathway .
The heat shock proteins ( HSPs ) centered and NF - kappaB centered networks were also enriched in the result , which may imply the key function of inflaming on metastasis .
Meanwhile , knockdown of HDGF , an up - regulated protein and a target of NF - kappaB , induced cell apoptosis in the metastatic HCC cells .
This work provides a demonstration that a combination of bioinformatics and comparative proteomics can help in finding out potential biomarkers associated with HCC metastasis on the level of pathways .
Induction of Id - 1 by FGF - 2 involves activity of EGR - 1 and sensitizes neuroblastoma cells to cell death .
Inhibitor of differentiation - 1 ( Id - 1 ) is a member of helix - loop - helix ( HLH ) family of proteins that regulate gene transcription through their inhibitory binding to basic - HLH transcription factors .
Similarly to other members of this family , Id - 1 is involved in the repression of cell differentiation and activation of cell growth .
The dual function of Id - 1 , inhibition of differentiation , and stimulation of cell proliferation , might be interdependent , as cell differentiation is generally coupled with the exit from the cell cycle .
Fibroblast growth factor - 2 ( FGF - 2 ) has been reported to play multiple roles in different biological processes during development of the central nervous system ( CNS ) .
Although regulation of Id - 1 protein by several mitogenic factors is well - established , little is known about the role of FGF - 2 in the regulation of Id - 1 .
Using human neuroblastoma cell line , SK - N - MC , we found that treatment of these cells with FGF - 2 resulted in early induction of both Id - 1 mRNA and protein .
The induction occurs within 1 h from FGF - 2 treatment and is mediated by ERK1 / 2 pathway , which in turn stimulates expression of the early growth response - 1 ( Egr - 1 ) transcription factor .
We also demonstrate direct interaction of Egr - 1 with Id - 1 promoter in vitro and in cell culture .
Finally , inhibition of Id - 1 expression results in G ( 2 ) / M accumulation of FGF - 2 - treated cells and delayed cell death .
Vimentin is preferentially expressed in human breast carcinomas with low estrogen receptor and high Ki - 67 growth fraction .
Vimentin expression , growth fractions ( GF ) , and estrogen receptor ( ER ) levels were determined for 90 untreated primary breast carcinomas .
Coexpression of keratin and vimentin was found in approximately 20 % of the tumors regardless of menopausal status .
Vimentin was expressed preferentially in tumor cells of high - grade ductal breast carcinomas ( 15 of 28 histologic grade 3 vs . 0 of 40 grades 1 and 2 ) .
Vimentin expression was found preferentially in tumors with high GF ( greater than 15 % Ki - 67 positive by immunoperoxidase staining ) and low ER levels ( less than 60 fmols / mg protein by a monoclonal enzyme immunoassay ) .
Sixty - eight percent of tumors in this group were vimentin positive and 88 % of all vimentin - positive tumors fell into this category .
More than 50 % of the tumor cells coexpressed vimentin and keratin .
Thus , vimentin expression may be helpful in identifying a substantial subset of ER - independent breast carcinomas with poor prognostic indicators .
[ Expression of Merlin protein in non - small cell lung carcinoma and the clinical significance ] .
OBJECTIVE : To determine the expression and clinical significance of Merlin protein in non - small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) .
METHODS : The expression of Merlin protein in 45 cases of NSCLC and adjacent tissue of NSCLC and normal lung tissue was checked by immunohistochemistry .
The relation between the expression of Merlin protein and the multiple factors of pathological type , gender , P - TNM stage , differentiation and lymph node metastasis was analyzed .
RESULTS : The expression rates of Merlin protein in NSCLC and normal lung tissue sections were 73 . 33 % and 15 . 56 % , respectively ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
The expression of Merlin protein was not associated with the pathological type , gender , P - TNM stage , differentiation and lymph node metastasis ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
CONCLUSION : Merlin protein might contribute to the initiation of metastasis of NSCLC .
The members of an Epstein - Barr virus microRNA cluster cooperate to transform B lymphocytes .
Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) transforms B lymphocytes through the expression of the latent viral proteins EBNA and latent membrane protein ( LMP ) .
Recently , it has become apparent that microRNAs ( miRNAs ) also contribute to EBV ' s oncogenic properties ; recombinant EBVs that lack the BHRF1 miRNA cluster display a reduced ability to transform B lymphocytes in vitro .
Furthermore , infected cells evince a marked upregulation of the EBNA genes .
Using recombinant viruses that lack only one member of the cluster , we now show that all three BHRF1 miRNAs contribute to B - cell transformation .
Recombinants that lacked miR - BHRF1 - 2 or miR - BHRF1 - 3 displayed enhanced EBNA expression initiated at the Cp and Wp promoters .
Interestingly , we find that the deletion of miR - BHRF1 - 2 reduced the expression level of miR - BHRF1 - 3 and possibly that of miR - BHRF1 - 1 , demonstrating that the expression of one miRNA can potentiate the expression of other miRNAs located in the same cluster .
Therefore , the phenotypic traits of the miR - BHRF1 - 2 null mutant could result partly from reduced miR - BHRF1 - 1 and miR - BHRF1 - 3 expression levels .
Nevertheless , using an miR - BHRF1 - 1 and miR - BHRF1 - 3 double mutant , we could directly assess and confirm the contribution of miR - BHRF1 - 2 to B - cell transformation .
Furthermore , we found that the potentiating effect of miR - BHRF1 - 2 on miR - BHRF1 - 3 synthesis can be reproduced with simple expression plasmids , provided that both miRNAs are processed from the same transcript .
Therefore , this enhancing effect does not result from an idiosyncrasy of the EBV genome but rather reflects a general property of these miRNAs .
This study highlights the advantages of arranging the BHRF1 miRNAs in clusters : it allows the synchronous and synergistic expression of genetic elements that cooperate to transform their target cells .
Sunitinib induces apoptosis in pheochromocytoma tumor cells by inhibiting VEGFR2 / Akt / mTOR / S6K1 pathways through modulation of Bcl - 2 and BAD .
Sunitinib is an oral multitargeted receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor with antiangiogenic and antitumor activity that mainly targets vascular endothelial growth factor receptors ( VEGFRs ) .
Very recently , sunitinib has been shown to be an active agent for the treatment of malignant pheochromocytomas .
However , it is unclear whether sunitinib acts only through an antiangiogenic mechanism or whether it may also directly target tumor cells .
Sunitinib markedly induced apoptosis of PC12 cells in a dose - dependent and time - dependent manner .
Furthermore , in support of these findings , we found that sunitinib induced a reduction in the expression of the antiapoptotic molecule Bcl - 2 as well as dephosphorylation of the proapoptotic molecule BAD , which results in the activation of BAD in these cells .
Consistent with these apoptotic effects , our results showed that sunitinib inhibited phosphorylation of Akt and mTOR and was followed by a reduction of S6K1 , which is a well - known target of mTOR .
Knockdown of VEGFR - 2 attenuated the sunitinib - induced effects , including apoptosis and inhibition of signaling pathways such as the phosphorylation of Akt as well as mTOR , and Bcl - 2 , which confirmed that these effects could be mediated by VEGFR - 2 .
In addition , silencing of S6K1 induced apoptosis accompanied by a decrease in the phosphorylation of BAD and Bcl - 2 , similar to that observed with sunitinib treatment .
Thus , these results together suggest that sunitinib initially exerts its apoptotic effect through the inhibition of VEGFR - 2 , which , when followed by reduction of its downstream effectors , including Akt / mTOR / S6K1 , may lead to inhibition of the antiapoptotic molecule Bcl - 2 and activation of the proapoptotic molecule BAD in PC12 cells .
However , PC12 cells do not precisely reflect the pathogenesis of malignant cells .
Therefore , we confirmed the key findings by replicating these experiments in human neuroblastoma SK - N - SH cells .
Development of a mouse model for lymph node metastasis with endometrial cancer .
Controlling lymph node metastasis is currently a key issue in cancer therapy .
Lymph node metastasis is one of the most important prognostic factors in various types of cancers , including endometrial cancer .
Vascular endothelial growth factor - C ( VEGF - C ) plays a crucial role in lymphangiogenesis , and is implicated to play an important role in lymph node metastasis .
To evaluate the role of VEGF - C in lymph node metastasis , we developed an animal model by using an endometrial cancer cell line , HEC1A .
This cell line is not invasive by nature and secretes moderate amounts of VEGF - C ; intrauterine injection of HEC1A cells into Balb / c nude mice resulted in uterine cancer with lymph node metastasis after 8 weeks .
To analyze the contribution of VEGF - C to lymph node metastasis , its corresponding gene was stably introduced into HEC1A cells ( HEC1A / VEGF - C ) , which then produced more than 10 times the amount of VEGF - C .
The number of lymph node metastases was significantly higher in HEC1A / VEGF - C cells than in HEC1A cells ( 3 . 2 vs 1 . 1 nodes / animal , respectively ) .
Augmented lymphangiogenesis was observed within tumors when HEC1A / VEGF - C cells were inoculated .
These results indicate that VEGF - C plays a critical role in lymph node metastasis , in addition to serving as a platform to test the efficacy of various therapeutic modalities against lymph node metastasis .
IL - 17F deficiency inhibits small intestinal tumorigenesis in ApcMin / + mice .
IL - 17 plays an important role in gut homeostasis .
However , the role of IL - 17F in intestinal tumorigenesis has not been addressed .
Here we demonstrate that ablation of IL - 17F significantly inhibits spontaneous intestinal tumorigenesis in the small intestine of Apc ( Min / + ) mice .
IL - 17F ablation decreased IL - 1beta and Cox - 2 expression as well as IL - 17 receptor C ( IL - 17RC ) expression , which were increased in tumors from Apc ( Min / + ) mice .
Lack of IL - 17F did not reverse the splenomegaly but partially restored thymic atrophy , suggesting a local effect of IL - 17F in the intestine .
IL - 17F deficient Apc ( Min / + ) mice showed a significant decrease in immune cell infiltration in the lamina propria .
Interestingly , the expression of IL - 17A from CD4 T cells in the lamina propria remains unchanged in the absence of IL - 17F .
Collectively , our results suggest the proinflammatory and essential role of IL - 17F to develop spontaneous intestinal tumorigenesis in Apc ( Min / + ) mice in the presence of IL - 17A .
Curcumin inhibits metastatic progression of breast cancer cell through suppression of urokinase - type plasminogen activator by NF - kappa B signaling pathways .
Curcumin ( 1 , 7 - bis ( 4 - hydroxy - 3 - methoxyphenyl ) - 1 , 6 - heptadiene - 3 , 5 - dione ) , is extracted from the plant Curcuma longa .
It was recently reported for its anticancer effect on several types of cancer cells in vitro however , the molecular mechanisms of this anticancer effect are not fully understood .
In the present study , we evaluated the effects of curcumin on human mammary epithelial carcinoma MCF - 7 cells .
Cells were treated with curcumin and examined for cell viability by MTT assay .
The cells invasion was demonstrated by transwell assay .
The binding activity of NF - kappaB to DNA was examined in nuclear extracts using Trans - AM NF - kappaB ELISA kit .
Western blot was performed to detect the effect of curcumin on the expression of uPA .
Our results showed that curcumin dose - dependently inhibited ( P < 0 . 05 ) the proliferation of MCF - 7 cells .
Meanwhile , the adhesion and invasion ability of MCF - 7 cells were sharply inhibited when treated with different concentrations of curcumin .
Curcumin also significantly decreased ( P < 0 . 05 ) the expression of uPA and NF - kappaB DNA binding activity , respectively .
It is concluded that curcumin inhibits the adhesion and invasion of MCF - 7 cells through down - regulating the protein expression of uPA via of NF - kappaB activation .
Accordingly , the therapeutic potential of curcumin for breast cancer deserves further study .
c - MYC functions as a molecular switch to alter the response of human mammary epithelial cells to oncostatin M .
Cytokines play an important role in creating an inflammatory microenvironment , which is now considered a hallmark of cancer .
Although tumor cells can exploit cytokine signaling to promote growth , invasion , and metastasis , the response of normal and premalignant epithelial cells to cytokines present in a developing tumor microenvironment remains unclear .
Oncostatin M ( OSM ) , an IL - 6 family cytokine responsible for STAT3 activation , has been implicated in cancer development , progression , invasion , and metastasis .
Paradoxically , OSM can also suppress the growth of normal cells and certain tumor - derived cell lines .
Using isogenic human mammary epithelial cells ( HMEC ) at different stages of neoplastic transformation , we found that OSM signaling suppressed c - MYC expression and engaged a p16 - and p53 - independent growth arrest that required STAT3 activity .
Inhibition of STAT3 activation by expressing a dominant - negative STAT3 protein or a STAT3 - shRNA prevented the OSM - mediated arrest .
In addition , expression of c - MYC from a constitutive promoter also abrogated the STAT3 - mediated arrest , and strikingly , cooperated with OSM to promote anchorage - independent growth ( AIG ) , a property associated with malignant transformation .
Cooperative transformation by c - MYC and OSM required PI3K and AKT signaling , showing the importance of multiple signaling pathways downstream of the OSM receptor in defining the cellular response to cytokines .
These findings identify c - MYC as an important molecular switch that alters the cellular response to OSM - mediated signaling from tumor suppressive to tumor promoting .
PTHrP drives breast tumor initiation , progression , and metastasis in mice and is a potential therapy target .
Parathyroid hormone - related protein ( PTHrP ) is a secreted factor expressed in almost all normal fetal and adult tissues .
It is involved in a wide range of developmental and physiological processes , including serum calcium regulation .
PTHrP is also associated with the progression of skeletal metastases , and its dysregulated expression in advanced cancers causes malignancy - associated hypercalcemia .
Although PTHrP is frequently expressed by breast tumors and other solid cancers , its effects on tumor progression are unclear .
Here , we demonstrate in mice pleiotropic involvement of PTHrP in key steps of breast cancer - it influences the initiation and progression of primary tumors and metastases .
Pthrp ablation in the mammary epithelium of the PyMT - MMTV breast cancer mouse model caused a delay in primary tumor initiation , inhibited tumor progression , and reduced metastasis to distal sites .
Mechanistically , it reduced expression of molecular markers of cell proliferation ( Ki67 ) and angiogenesis ( factor VIII ) , antiapoptotic factor Bcl - 2 , cell - cycle progression regulator cyclin D1 , and survival factor AKT1 .
PTHrP also influenced expression of the adhesion factor CXCR4 , and coexpression of PTHrP and CXCR4 was crucial for metastatic spread .
Importantly , PTHrP - specific neutralizing antibodies slowed the progression and metastasis of human breast cancer xenografts .
Our data identify what we believe to be new functions for PTHrP in several key steps of breast cancer and suggest that PTHrP may constitute a novel target for therapeutic intervention .
Aquaporins in human breast cancer : identification and involvement in carcinogenesis of breast cancer .
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES : Aquaporins ( AQPs ) play important roles in water and glycerol transport .
Recently , the role of AQPs in human carcinogenesis has become an area of great interest .
However , little is known about the function of AQPs in human breast cancer .
The aim of this study was to investigate the expression profile of AQPs in human breast cancer and its significance .
METHODS : In this study , we screened the expression profile of AQP0 - 12 in breast cancer tissues and corresponding normal tissues by RT - PCR , Western blotting and immunohistochemistry .
RESULTS : AQP1 , 3 - 5 , and 10 - 12 were expressed in human breast cancer and / or normal breast tissues , and AQP1 and 3 - 5 exhibited differential expression .
AQP1 was expressed in cell membranes and its expression was higher in cancer than that in normal tissues .
AQP4 was expressed in the cell membrane and cytoplasm and was detected markedly stronger in normal than in cancer tissues .
AQP5 was expressed mainly in cell membranes in carcinoma tissues , but was almost absent in normal breast tissues .
Expression of AQP5 was associated with cellular differentiation , lymph node invasion , and clinicopathological staging .
CONCLUSIONS : These observations suggested that several subtypes of the AQP family play a role in human breast carcinogenesis .
Research and discovery of the first human cancer virus , HTLV - 1 .
Human T - cell lymphoma virus ( HTLV ) - 1 was the first human retrovirus to be discovered .
It has been recognized as the cause of adult T - cell leukemia ( ATL ) .
In addition to giving a historical perspective on HTLV - 1 and other retrovirus research , this paper discusses the origin of HTLV - 1 ; the modes of transmission and global epidemiology of HTLV - 1 infection ; the genome of HTLV - 1 and the mechanism of HTLV - 1 - induced leukemogenesis ; the role of HTLV - 1 in other diseases , and recent breakthroughs in ATL therapy .
Selective inhibition of nuclear factor - kappaB by nuclear factor - kappaB essential modulator - binding domain peptide suppresses the metastasis of highly metastatic oral squamous cell carcinoma .
Nuclear factor - kappaB ( NF - kappaB ) activation contributes to the development of metastasis , thus leading to a poor prognosis in many cancers , including OSCC .
However , little in vivo experimental data are available about the effects of NF - kappaB inhibition on OSCC metastasis .
OSCC sublines were established from a GFP - expressing parental cell line , GSAS , and designated GSAS / N3 and N5 according to the in vivo passage number after cervical lymph node metastasis by a serial orthotopic transplantation model .
In vitro migration and invasion were assessed in these cells , and the NF - kappaB activities and expression of NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules were also examined .
In in vivo experiments , the metastasis and survival of tumor - engrafted mice were monitored .
Furthermore , the effects of a selective NF - kappaB inhibitor , NEMO - binding domain ( NBD ) peptide , on metastasis in GSAS / N5 - engrafted mice were assessed , and engrafted tongue tumors were immunohistochemically examined .
Highly metastatic GSAS / N3 and N5 cells showed an enhanced NF - kappaB activity , thus contributing to increased migration , invasion , and a poor prognosis compared with the parent cells .
Furthermore , the expression levels of NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules , such as fibronectin , beta1 integrin , MMP - 1 , - 2 , - 9 , and - 14 , and VEGF - C , were upregulated in the highly metastatic cells .
The NBD peptide suppressed metastasis and tongue tumor growth in GSAS / N5 - inoculated mice , and was accompanied by the downregulation of the NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules in engrafted tongue tumors .
Our results suggest that the selective inhibition of NF - kappaB activation by NBD peptide may provide an effective approach for the treatment of highly metastatic OSCC .
beta - catenin signaling controls metastasis in Braf - activated Pten - deficient melanomas .
Malignant melanoma is characterized by frequent metastasis , however , specific changes that regulate this process have not been clearly delineated .
Although it is well known that Wnt signaling is frequently dysregulated in melanoma , the functional implications of this observation are unclear .
By modulating beta - catenin levels in a mouse model of melanoma that is based on melanocyte - specific Pten loss and Braf ( V600E ) mutation , we demonstrate that beta - catenin is a central mediator of melanoma metastasis to the lymph nodes and lungs .
In addition to altering metastasis , beta - catenin levels control tumor differentiation and regulate both MAPK / Erk and PI3K / Akt signaling .
Highly metastatic tumors with beta - catenin stabilization are very similar to a subset of human melanomas .
Together these findings establish Wnt signaling as a metastasis regulator in melanoma .
Mitochondrial apoptosis and FAK signaling disruption by a novel histone deacetylase inhibitor , HTPB , in antitumor and antimetastatic mouse models .
BACKGROUND : Compound targeting histone deacetylase ( HDAC ) represents a new era in molecular cancer therapeutics .
However , effective HDAC inhibitors for the treatment of solid tumors remain to be developed .
METHODOLOGY / PRINCIPAL FINDINGS : Here , we propose a novel HDAC inhibitor , N - Hydroxy - 4 - ( 4 - phenylbutyryl - amino ) benzamide ( HTPB ) , as a potential chemotherapeutic drug for solid tumors .
The HDAC inhibition of HTPB was confirmed using HDAC activity assay .
The antiproliferative and anti - migratory mechanisms of HTPB were investigated by cell proliferation , flow cytometry , DNA ladder , caspase activity , Rho activity , F - actin polymerization , and gelatin - zymography for matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) .
Mice with tumor xenograft and experimental metastasis model were used to evaluate effects on tumor growth and metastasis .
Our results indicated that HTPB was a pan - HDAC inhibitor in suppressing cell viability specifically of lung cancer cells but not of the normal lung cells .
Upon HTPB treatment , cell cycle arrest was induced and subsequently led to mitochondria - mediated apoptosis .
HTPB disrupted F - actin dynamics via downregulating RhoA activity .
Moreover , HTPB inhibited activity of MMP2 and MMP9 , reduced integrin - beta1 / focal adhesion complex formation and decreased pericellular poly - fibronectin assemblies .
Finally , intraperitoneal injection or oral administration of HTPB efficiently inhibited A549 xenograft tumor growth in vivo without side effects .
HTPB delayed lung metastasis of 4T1 mouse breast cancer cells .
Acetylation of histone and non - histone proteins , induction of apoptotic - related proteins and de - phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase were confirmed in treated mice .
CONCLUSIONS / SIGNIFICANCE : These results suggested that intrinsic apoptotic pathway may involve in anti - tumor growth effects of HTPB in lung cancer cells .
HTPB significantly suppresses tumor metastasis partly through inhibition of integrin - beta1 / FAK / MMP / RhoA / F - actin pathways .
We have provided convincing preclinical evidence that HTPB is a potent HDAC targeted inhibitor and is thus a promising candidate for lung cancer chemotherapy .
Expression of HER2 and bradykinin B1 receptors in precursor lesions of gallbladder carcinoma .
AIM : To determine the expression of HER2 and bradykinin B ( 1 ) receptors ( B ( 1 ) R ) in the two pathogenic models of gallbladder cancer : the metaplasia - dysplasia - carcinoma and the adenoma - carcinoma pathways .
METHODS : Receptor proteins were visualized by immunohistochemistry on 5 - mum sections of paraffin - embedded tissue .
Expression of both receptors was studied in biopsy samples from 92 patients ( 6 males and 86 females ; age ranging from 28 to 86 years , mean 56 years ) .
High HER2 expression in specimens was additionally investigated by fluorescence in situ hybridization .
Cell proliferation in each sample was assessed by using the Ki - 67 proliferation marker .
RESULTS : HER2 receptor protein was absent in adenomas and in normal gallbladder epithelium .
On the contrary , there was intense staining for HER2 on the basolateral membrane of epithelial cells of intestinal metaplasia ( 22 / 24 ; 91 . 7 % ) and carcinoma in situ ( 9 / 10 ; 90 % ) , the lesions that displayed a significantly high proliferation index .
Protein up - regulation of HER2 in the epithelium with metaplasia or carcinoma in situ was not accompanied by HER2 gene amplification .
A similar result was observed in invasive carcinomas ( 0 / 12 ) .
The B ( 1 ) R distribution pattern mirrored that of HER2 except that B ( 1 ) R was additionally observed in the adenomas .
The B ( 1 ) R appeared either as cytoplasmic dots or labeling on the apical cell membrane of the cells composing the epithelia with intestinal metaplasia ( 24 / 24 ; 100 % ) and carcinoma in situ ( 10 / 10 ; 100 % ) and in the epithelial cells of adenomas .
In contrast , both HER2 ( 4 / 12 ; 33 % ) and B ( 1 ) R ( 1 / 12 ; 8 . 3 % ) showed a low expression in invasive gallbladder carcinomas .
CONCLUSION : The up - regulation of HER2 and B ( 1 ) R in precursor lesions of gallbladder carcinoma suggests cross - talk between these two receptors that may be of importance in the modulation of cell proliferation in gallbladder carcinogenesis .
Expression of basic fibroblast growth factor in normal human tissues .
The distribution of basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) was studied immunohistochemically in fresh frozen sections of normal human tissues .
Immunodetection was performed with a specific anti - bFGF mouse monoclonal antibody that was found to react with recombinant human bFGF in Western blot analysis , and to specifically neutralize the mitogenic activity of bFGF on bovine vascular endothelial cells .
Expression of bFGF on normal human tissues was ubiquitously detected in the basement membranes of all size blood vessels , but was not found in epidermal or epithelial basement membranes of a variety of tissues tested .
Intensity and patterns of localization in blood vessels was consistent in various tissues , but varied among different regions of the vascular bed .
Whereas homogeneous and intense immunoreactivity were observed in large and intermediate size blood vessels , heterogeneity of expression was found in capillaries .
The most intense immunoreactivity was observed in branching capillaries .
Endothelial cell staining was heterogeneous and varied in different regions .
Strong staining for bFGF was also found in cardiac muscle fibers , smooth muscle cells of mid - size blood vessels , the gut and the myometrium , in central nervous system neurons and cerebellar Purkinje cells , and on epithelial cells of the bronchi , colon , endometrium , and sweat gland ducts of the skin .
The presence of bFGF in the extracellular compartment of a diverse variety of organs may play a role in angiogenesis .
However , the function of bFGF in parenchymal cells remains to be determined .
Overexpression confers an oncogenic potential upon the eph gene .
The eph gene encodes a putative receptor tyrosine kinase for an as yet unknown ligand .
Some human cancer cells have been found to overexpress eph mRNAs without gene amplification .
We show here that NIH3T3 cells acquire tumorigenic ability in nude mice and make colonies in soft agar with a viral LTR ( Long Terminal Repeat ) - driven artificial expression of the eph gene to a high level .
This result supports the alleged contribution of overexpressed receptor tyrosine kinases to cell transformation .
Energy supply of the mitotic cell cycle and the Na + / H + - antiport in ascites tumors .
The activation of Na + transport is due to the exchange of protons formed via glucose conversion into lactate for Na + , i . e . , to the stimulation of the Na + / H + - antiport .
Experimental results and theoretical calculations suggest that in glucose - containing medium the Na + transport increases from 0 . 75 to 1 . 78 pmol / hour per cell .
The permeability of plasma membranes for K + increases 2 . 75 fold , while the passive flux of Na + diminishes .
The intensity of O2 adsorption by ascites tumor cells does not practically depend on the monovalent cation concentration gradient between the cells and the culture medium , whereas the rate of glycolysis decreases simultaneously with the diminution of the concentration gradient .
In synchronized cultures at the beginning of the mitotic cycle , the bulk of ATP resynthesized via glycolysis is utilized for the synthesis of biopolymers , whereas that at the end of the S - phase and in the G2 - phase is utilized for cation transport across plasma membranes .
From 35 to 100 % of the whole amount of ATP resynthesized via glycolysis is utilized for transport purposes .
It is concluded that the observed increase in the Na + / K + ratio in ascites tumor cells is connected with their enhanced ability to synthesize lactic acid .
Presumably , glycolysis is one of the regulatory mechanisms of intracellular ratios of monovalent cations .
[ Tumor metastasis and the fibrinolytic system ] .
Metastatic spread of malignant tumor appears to correlate with activation of the fibrolytic system .
The role of fibrinolysis in growth and metastasis was examined in Lewis lung carcinoma of mice .
The inhibition of fibrinolysis or proteases decreased the primary tumor growth and pulmonary metastasis , whereas the activation of fibrinolysis or proteases increased the number of metastatic foci in the lung .
Electronmicroscopically , thrombus formation in the primary site prevented tumor invasion and metastasis formation .
Plasminogen activator ( PA ) content of excised tumors was determined by SDS - PAGE , and major PA was found to be urokinase ( UK ) type .
Immunohistochemical study with specific antisera was done .
When tumor cells possessed a high level of UK , laminin and type IV collagen , components of the basement membrane , disappeared from tumor tissues .
These findings suggest that PA through protease cascade plays a role in tumor invasion and metastasis .
Clinically , patients with advanced cancer are usually in a hypercoagulable state with elevated fibrinogen , and fibrin deposition around tumor mass is a serious problem in cancer chemotherapy .
UK infusion prior to 5 - fluorouracil increased tissue concentration of antitumor agent .
However , development of consumption coagulopathy characterized by progression from hypercoagulable state to disseminated intravascular coagulation has also been found in several cases .
On the mechanism of glycolysis stimulation by neutral detergents in 3T3 and Ehrlich ascites tumor cells .
Glycolysis of 3T3 and Ehrlich ascites tumor cells was greatly enhanced by Nonidet P - 40 or Triton X - 100 at about 100 micrograms / mg cell protein .
This enhanced glycolysis was partly sensitive to rutamycin and partly sensitive to ouabain , suggesting that the detergent released the control of the ATPase of the mitochondria and of the plasma membrane Na + K + - ATPase .
Nonidet P - 40 had no effect on glycolysis in cell - free extracts from Ehrlich ascites tumor cells to which soluble mitochondrial ATPase was added .
Measuring ouabain - sensitive 22Na efflux and using ouabain - sensitive lactate production as a measure of ATP hydrolysis by the Na + K + pump , it was shown that Nonidet P - 40 greatly decreased the efficiency of the Na + K + pump .
Quercetin increased the efficiency of pumping in EAT cells both in the absence and presence of the detergent .
Elevated levels of diacylglycerol and decreased phorbol ester sensitivity in ras - transformed fibroblasts .
Diacylglycerol ( DG ) plays a central role in phospholipid metabolism and is an endogenous activator of protein kinase C .
We have suggested that constitutive activation of this kinase is one mechanism by which oncogenes transform cells .
The ras - encoded proteins are similar to regulatory G - proteins and are candidates for the unknown G - protein that modulates phosphatidylinositol ( PI ) turnover .
Differences in polyphosphoinositide metabolism have been reported for ras - transformed cells .
But because these experiments were performed on confluent cultures of established cell lines , the differences are difficult to attribute to ras transformation .
Here we show that exponentially growing NIH 3T3 fibroblasts recently transformed by Ha - ras or Ki - ras possess elevated DG concentrations without significant alterations in the levels of other polyphosphoinositide metabolites .
The basal phosphorylation of protein kinase C substrate of relative molecular mass ( Mr ) 80 , 000 ( 80K ) is significantly increased in all the ras - transformed cell lines .
Surprisingly , however , further phosphorylation of this protein on addition of phorbol ester was greatly reduced .
Ha - ras cells also show less binding of phorbol ester than control cells , suggesting that elevation of DG causes partial down - regulation in addition to activation of protein kinase C .
Epidermal growth factor and its receptor .
Epidermal growth factor ( EGF ) binds with high affinity and specificity to a single site on the external domain of its transmembrane receptor to activate the tyrosine protein kinase activity of its cytoplasmic portion .
The EGF receptor gene is amplified and over - expressed in several human tumors , suggesting that increased concentrations of the proto - oncogene leads to constitutive activity similar to that seen with oncogene erb B .
Synthesis and degradation of the EGF receptor are regulated , in addition , covalent modification by phosphorylation regulates activity of the receptor protein .
Intramolecular self - phosphorylation of Tyr1173 removes a competitive inhibitory constraint to enhance phosphorylation of substrates .
Phosphorylation of Thr654 by protein kinase C decreases high affinity EGF binding and EGF - stimulated tyrosine protein kinase activity , providing a mechanism for heterologous regulation of the EGF receptor by tumor promoters and other ligand X receptor complexes .
Extensive regulation contributes to normal growth control , abrogation of regulatory controls contributes to uncontrolled growth as seen with erb B transformation and EGF receptor gene amplification in human tumors .
Glutamine and glucose as energy substrates for Ehrlich ascites tumour cells .
Energy metabolism of freshly harvested Ehrlich ascites tumour cells in the presence of 5 mM glucose and / or 0 . 5 mM glutamine was studied .
The rate of oxygen utilization was not altered by the addition of 0 . 5 mM glutamine ; 5 mM glucose induced an inhibition of respiration .
In the presence of both glucose and glutamine , the Crabtree effect decreased .
In these conditions , the rates of oxygen uptake , the CO2 evolution and the changes in the redox states of cytochromes indicate that glucose is preferred by Ehrlich ascites tumour cells as energy substrate .
Glucose decreased the rate of glutamine utilization by 34 % .
On the other hand , glutaminolysis did not inhibit glycolysis .
Growth state - dependent regulation of protein kinase C in normal and transformed murine cells .
We determined whether growth state can influence the action of protein kinase C by measuring protein kinase C activity in growing and stationary cultures of normal and transformed cells .
Two approaches were used to measure protein kinase C : assay of intact cells for inhibition of epidermal growth factor ( EGF ) binding in response to phorbol dibutyrate ( PDBu ) ; and assay of detergent extracts for total calcium , phospholipid - dependent kinase activity .
In extracts of growing and stationary Swiss 3T3 cells , the total amount of protein kinase C activity was similar , indicating that growth state does not alter the level of enzyme in the cell .
The short - term response of Swiss 3T3 cells to an activator of protein kinase C also appeared to be independent of growth state , since the 50 % effective dose for PDBu inhibition of EGF binding to its receptor was approximately 7 nM for both growth conditions .
In contrast , the response of cells to long - term treatment with PDBu was significantly different depending upon the initial growth state of the cells .
In both growth states , PDBu caused loss of protein kinase C activity , which reflected a loss in protein mass as determined by immunoblotting with antiserum to protein kinase C .
However , the maximum decrease approached 100 % in stationary cultures versus approximately 75 % in growing cells .
Protein kinase C levels in several transformed cell lines were subject to down modulation in a similar growth state - dependent manner .
Further , the inhibition of EGF binding by tumor promoters following long - term treatment of Swiss 3T3 cells with PDBu also varied with growth state .
In down modulated growing cells , PDBu caused almost complete inhibition of EGF binding , whereas in down modulated stationary cells , minimal inhibition of EGF binding by PDBu was observed .
These results suggest that prolonged treatment with tumor promoters alters the sensitivity of cells to activators of protein kinase C in a growth state - dependent manner .
Suppression and re - expression of transformed phenotype in hybrids of HA - ras - 1 - transformed rat - 1 cells and early - passage rat embryonic fibroblasts .
Rat - 1 cells which had been transformed with the activated Ha - ras - 1 gene from human EJ bladder carcinoma cells were fused with diploid embryonic rat fibroblasts .
Four selected cell hybrids expressed the human transforming gene product p21 at levels of 10 to 30 % compared to 100 % in the transformed parental cells .
The hybrid cells , however , exhibited normal morphology , anchorage requirement for proliferation , and largely extended latency periods of tumorigenicity in newborn rats .
Tumorigenic hybrid derivatives contained lower numbers of chromosomes than the tetraploid parental hybrids .
DNA of the non - tumorigenic cell hybrids transformed Rat - 1 cells to anchorage - independent proliferation as expected for the transforming human Ha - ras gene present in the donor DNA .
We conclude that the transforming properties of the activated Ha - ras gene in Rat - 1 cells can be suppressed at the post - translational level by the presence of the genome from diploid embryonic rat fibroblasts but additional controls of expression of the transforming gene are likely to exist .
Normal cells contain suppressor gene ( s ) which safeguard these cells against transformation by the product of the transforming Ha - ras - 1 oncogene .
Mast cells and tumors .
The specific enhancement of tumor proliferation in vitro .
Mast cells were found to be unique among the peritoneal leukocytes by virtue of their capacity to enhance profoundly the proliferation of a variety of tumors in vitro .
This phenomenon occurs at mast cell / tumor ratios which reflect the stoichiometry of host cell / tumor relationships in vivo .
The growth factor was found to reside in mast cell granules and was identified as heparin by sequential purification and enzymatic degradation .
This cellular interaction was tumor - specific , although isolated granules could enhance fibroblast proliferation .
The findings are discussed in relation to previous morphologic studies , reports of in vitro mast - cell - mediated tumor cytotoxicity , and the role of mast cells in angiogenesis and connective tissue proliferation .
Identification of the putative transforming protein of the human T - cell leukemia viruses HTLV - I and HTLV - II .
The human T - cell leukemia viruses HTLV - I and HTLV - II are unique among the transforming retroviruses of vertebrates in their ability to transform human T cells in vitro and in their close association with human malignancies ( T - cell lymphomas and leukemia ) .
The existence of proteins encoded by the 3 ' region has been postulated on the basis of multiple open reading frames .
In the present study this region is shown to contain a gene encoding a protein of 40 kilodaltons in HTLV - I and 37 kilodaltons in HTLV - II .
It is proposed that these proteins be called , respectively , p40xI and p37xII .
Cells transformed by Rous sarcoma virus release transforming growth factors .
Chicken embryo fibroblasts and hamster BHK cells transformed by Rous sarcoma virus ( RSV ) release in their culture media growth factors which enhance markedly anchorage - independent colony formation in gelified medium , at the restrictive temperature ( 41 degrees 5 C ) , of chicken embryo fibroblasts ( CEF ) infected by RSV mutants with a ts mutation of the src gene .
This action is not observed with uninfected CEF , and , therefore , appears to require some expression of the viral src gene in the target cells .
The enhancing factors are proteins related to the family of the transforming growth factors ( TGFs ) by their molecular weight ( about 20 kd ) , their heat and acid resistance , and their sensitivity to dithiothreitol .
They do not compete with 125I EGF for binding on the EGF receptors of the membrane of A431 cells .
As chicken embryo fibroblasts are devoid of EGF receptors , their activity is not potentiated by EGF .
The genetics of transformation by SV 40 .
Experiments using the tsA 58 allele of the SV 40 - A gene have demonstrated that the SV 40 large T - antigen is strictly required both for immortalization and induction anchorage independence of cells .
It has been suggested that the immortalized phenotype is mediated by an extra cellular factor .
The synthesis and / or the excretion of this factor in a medium is controlled by the A gene .
Molecular events leading to enhanced glucose transport in Rous sarcoma virus - transformed cells .
Transformation by Rous sarcoma virus results in a dramatic increase in the rate at which the transformed cells transport glucose across the cell membrane .
The increased transport rate is a consequence of an increased number of transporters in the transformed cells .
Utilizing antibody raised against the purified human erythrocyte glucose transporter , we have identified the glucose transporter as a membrane glycoprotein with a monomer Mr of approximately 41 , 000 .
The increased rate of glucose transport is dependent on the activity of pp60src , the transforming protein of Rous sarcoma virus .
This protein has been shown to be a protein kinase that phosphorylates on tyrosine residues .
We have examined the tyrosine phosphorylation of a major cellular protein of Mr 36 , 000 in cells infected with a panel of partially transforming mutants of Rous sarcoma virus .
One of these mutants ( CU2 ) increases the rate of glucose transport only slightly and does not render the infected cells fully anchorage independent or tumorigenic ( although other transformation parameters are fully induced ) .
Cells infected with this mutant display a 36 , 000 - dalton protein that is phosphorylated to a considerably lesser extent than cells infected with wild - type virus .
Analyses of this sort may help to identify the cellular targets of pp60src whose phosphorylation is necessary for the increased glucose transport rate .
DNA methylation and expression of HLA - DR alpha .
B - cell lines established from two individuals with T - cell acute lymphocytic leukemia ( T - ALL ) express HLA - DR antigens , whereas the isogenic T - cells do not .
The lack of expression correlates with a lack of detectable HLA - DR mRNA .
All of the DR alpha DNA sequences detected by a cloned DR alpha cDNA probe are contained in a BglII fragment which varies slightly in size ( 4 . 0 to 4 . 8 kilobases ) from one individual to another .
In DNA from the T - cells not expressing DR alpha mRNA , all of the potential HpaII sites within the BglII fragment appeared to be methylated .
In contrast , at least some of these sites were not methylated in DNA from the B - cells expressing high levels of DR alpha mRNA .
Treatment of these T - cells with 5 - azacytidine resulted in the induction of DR surface antigen expression , the appearance of DR alpha mRNA , and the partial demethylation of the DR alpha DNA sequences .
T - cell lines established from human T - cell leukemia - lymphoma virus associated T - cell neoplasias , in contrast to the T - cell acute lymphocytic leukemia cell lines , expressed both DR antigens and DR alpha mRNA ; the HpaII sites within the BglII fragment of DR alpha DNA of these human T - cell leukemia - lymphoma virus - positive T - cell lines were in all cases at least partially unmethylated .
Uncultured peripheral blood T - cells from human T - cell leukemia - lymphoma virus - infected individuals expressed DR antigens at a low level , and the DR alpha locus was partially unmethylated .
After 48 h in culture , DR antigen expression was substantially increased , but no significant changes were observed in methylation of the DR alpha locus or in the amount of DR mRNA which was present .
This suggests that expression of DR antigens also can be modulated post - transcriptionally .
Hemostasis and mechanism of action of selective antimetastatic drugs in mice bearing Lewis lung carcinoma .
The selective antimetastatic agents p - ( 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 1 - triazeno ) benzoic acid potassium salt ( DM - COOK ) , 5 - ( 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 1 - triazeno ) imidazole - 4 - carboxamide ( DTIC ) and ( + / - ) 1 , 2 - di ( 3 , 5 - dioxopiperazin - 1 - yl ) propane ( ICRF - 159 ) have been shown to markedly depress the formation of spontaneous hematogenous metastases in mice bearing s . c .
Lewis lung carcinoma , with a mechanism unrelated to cytotoxicity for tumor cells .
The effects on hemostasis of DM - COOK , DTIC and ICRF - 159 have thus been examined in comparison with those of a purely cytotoxic agent , cyclophosphamide , in mice bearing i . m .
Lewis lung carcinoma .
The parameters considered are the number of platelets and their aggregability , prothrombin and partial thromboplastin times , plasma fibrinogen concentration and tumor cell procoagulant activity .
Slight variations are caused by drug treatment in tumor - bearing mice as compared with untreated tumor - bearing controls ; the pattern of effects of the selective antimetastatic agents does not differ from that of the reference cytotoxic compound used , cyclophosphamide .
These data thus indicate that the effects on hemostasis of the drugs examined can contribute only marginally to their antimetastatic action , since more pronounced effects on hemostasis have been shown to be required to significantly affect metastasis formation .
Metabolic alterations in a noncachectic animal tumor system .
The increased energy expended by the host to synthesize substrate , which is utilized by the tumor , is a potential cause of cancer cachexia .
In vivo glucose and alanine kinetics were examined by tracer methodology in a sarcoma - bearing rat model .
The effects of 3 - mercaptopicolinic acid , a potent inhibitor of gluconeogenesis , was also examined on this model .
Both tumor - bearing ( TB ) and nontumor bearing ( NTB ) animals were gaining weight prior to study and the tumors were relatively small .
The TB animals had significantly lower plasma glucose and higher blood lactic acid levels compared with NTB animals .
After inhibition of gluconeogenesis , the plasma glucose decreased and the blood lactate increased significantly more in TB than NTB animals .
The glucose turnover rate was significantly greater in TB compared with NTB animals , as was the rate of glucose recycling and the rate of gluconeogenesis ( alanine leads to glucose ) , both energy demanding processes .
These results suggest that the tumor - bearing animal , even prior to significant cachexia , has an excess demand for energy , the provision of which may be a significant factor in malignant cachexia .
The inhibition of cultured myoblast differentiation by the simian virus 40 large T antigen occurs after myogenin expression and Rb up - regulation and is not exerted by transformation - competent cytoplasmic mutants .
We have investigated the mechanism by which the simian virus 40 large T antigen ( SVLT ) interferes with the differentiation of C2 myoblasts .
SVLT mutants , defective either in the Rb binding site , near the N - terminal end , in a region that affects binding to p53 , or in the nuclear transport signal , were also employed to determine whether the interference was especially dependent on these functional domains .
It was found that wild - type ( wt ) SVLT strongly inhibited the terminal differentiation of mouse C2 myoblasts , but this arrest occurred only after the synthesis of myogenin , an initial step in biochemical differentiation .
Neither the synthesis nor some basic activities of MyoD appeared to be affected by wt SVLT .
In these transformants , mitogen depletion elicited an increase in the Rb level comparable to that in normal C2 cells ; wt SVLT , however , promoted the phosphorylation of a large part of the induced Rb .
Mutations affecting nuclear transport were far more critical for the ability to interfere with myogenic differentiation than were those affecting the transforming potential ; cytoplasmic SVLT expression was fully compatible with the terminal differentiation of C2 cells , despite enabling them to grow in semisolid medium , thus showing that the myogenesis - inhibiting property can be dissociated from transforming competence .
The remaining SVLT mutants presented different degrees of ability to inhibit differentiation ( as shown by the expression of tissue - specific markers in transformants ) .
The inhibiting mutants , including the Rb binding site mutant , were able to promote a higher state of Rb phosphorylation than that observed in either normal cells or cytoplasmic - SVLT transformants .
A transcript from the long terminal repeats of a murine retrovirus associated with trans activation of cellular genes .
Infection of human or murine cells with murine leukemia viruses rapidly increases the expression of a number of genes that belong to the immunoglobulin superfamily and are involved in T - lymphocyte activation , including the class I major histocompatibility complex antigens .
We have reported recently that the long terminal repeat ( LTR ) of Moloney murine leukemia virus encodes a trans activator which induces transcription and expression of class I major histocompatibility complex genes and certain cytokine genes .
The portion of the LTR responsible for trans activation was mapped by deletions to lie within the U3 region .
We demonstrate here that a transcript is initiated within the U3 region and that its presence correlates with the trans - activating activity .
Analysis of the LTR region reveals a potential internal promoter element for RNA polymerase III transcription within the U3 region .
Studies with polymerase inhibitors suggest that this LTR transcript , designated let ( LTR - encoded trans activator ) , is a product of RNA polymerase III .
The mechanisms whereby RNA leukemia viruses cause lymphoid neoplasia after a long latent period have been extensively studied but are only partially understood .
The region of the LTR identified here as being important in trans activation has recently been shown to be a critical determinant of the leukemogenicity and latency of Moloney murine leukemia virus .
These findings suggest a novel mechanism of retrovirus - induced activation of cellular gene expression , potentially contributing to leukemogenesis .
Anti - transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - beta antibodies inhibit breast cancer cell tumorigenicity and increase mouse spleen natural killer cell activity .
Implications for a possible role of tumor cell / host TGF - beta interactions in human breast cancer progression .
TGF - beta effects on angiogenesis , stroma formation , and immune function suggest its possible involvement in tumor progression .
This hypothesis was tested using the 2G7 IgG2b , which neutralizes TGF - beta 1 , - beta 2 , and - beta 3 , and the MDA - 231 human breast cancer cell line .
Inoculation of these cells in athymic mice decreases mouse spleen natural killer ( NK ) cell activity .
Intraperitoneal injections of 2G7 starting 1 d after intraperitoneal inoculation of tumor cells suppressed intraabdominal tumor and lung metastases , whereas the nonneutralizing anti - TGF - beta 12H5 IgG2a had no effect .
2G7 transiently inhibited growth of established MDA - 231 subcutaneous tumors .
Histologically , both 2G7 - treated and control tumors were identical .
Intraperitoneal administration of 2G7 resulted in a marked increase in mouse spleen NK cell activity .
2G7 did not inhibit MDA - 231 primary tumor or metastases formation , nor did it stimulate NK cell - mediated cytotoxicity in beige NK - deficient nude mice .
Finally , serum - free conditioned medium from MDA - 231 cells inhibited the NK cell activity of human blood lymphocytes .
This inhibition was blocked by the neutralizing anti - TGF - beta 2G7 antibody but not by a nonspecific IgG2 .
These data support a possible role for tumor cell TGF - beta in the progression of mammary carcinomas by suppressing host immune surveillance .
Enhanced DNA - binding activity of a Stat3 - related protein in cells transformed by the Src oncoprotein .
Cytokines and growth factors induce tyrosine phosphorylation of signal transducers and activators of transcription ( STATs ) that directly activate gene expression .
Cells stably transformed by the Src oncogene tyrosine kinase were examined for STAT protein activation .
Assays of electrophoretic mobility , DNA - binding specificity , and antigenicity indicated that Stat3 or a closely related STAT family member was constitutively activated by the Src oncoprotein .
Induction of this DNA - binding activity was accompanied by tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat3 and correlated with Src transformation .
These findings demonstrate that Src can activate STAT signaling pathways and raise the possibility that Stat3 contributes to oncogenesis by Src .
Bicistronic retroviral vector reveals capacity of v - erbA to induce erythroleukemia and to co - operate with v - myb .
Previous studies have shown that v - erbA and v - myb can induce the proliferation of avian erythroid cells in culture .
To study the combined effects of v - erbA and v - myb , the two oncogenes were engineered into a retrovirus bicistronic vector with an internal ribosomal entry site ( IRES ) or into a vector with a splice acceptor ( SPL ) .
This allowed coexpression of the two proteins and a comparison with the same vector containing either v - erbA or v - myb only .
Both the erbA IRES and the erbA / myb IRES virus constructs transformed erythroid cells after infection of bone marrow or blastoderm cultures .
The erbA / myb IRES virus exhibited a 5 - 10 - fold higher transformed colony forming efficiency than the erbA IRES virus in the blastoderm assay .
Surprisingly , when injected into chicken embryos in the presence of helper virus , both viruses induced an erythroleukemia in about half of the animals .
In contrast , no leukemia was observed with a myb IRES virus , with spliced vectors containing v - erbA alone or v - erbA in combination with v - myb , nor with erbA IRES and erbA / myb IRES viruses produced in the absence of helper virus .
The average latency of leukemia induction was shorter for the erbA / myb IRES virus ( 3 . 5 weeks ) than for the erbA IRES virus ( 5 weeks ) .
Nevertheless , for both viruses the leukemic blasts retained full factor dependence for growth .
These results show that v - erbA is capable of inducing an erythroleukemia when expressed by a high titer bicistronic retrovirus under conditions of virus spreading and that its in vitro and in vivo transforming potential can be enhanced by v - myb .
VEGF165 expressed by a replication - deficient recombinant adenovirus vector induces angiogenesis in vivo .
To evaluate the concept that localized delivery of angiogenic factors via virus - mediated gene transfer may be useful in the treatment of ischemic disorders , the replication - deficient adenovirus ( Ad ) vector AdCMV . VEGF165 ( where CMV is cytomegalovirus and VEGF is vascular endothelial growth factor ) containing the cDNA for human VEGF165 , a secreted endothelial cell - specific angiogenic growth factor , was constructed .
Human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) and rat aorta smooth muscle cells ( RASMCs ) infected with AdCMV . VEGF165 ( 5 and 20 plaque - forming units [ pfu ] per cell ) demonstrated VEGF mRNA expression and protein secretion into the supernatant .
Furthermore , the conditioned medium from these cells enhanced vascular permeability in vivo .
In contrast , neither VEGF mRNA nor secreted protein was found in uninfected HUVECs or RASMCs or in cells infected with the control vector AdCMV . beta gal ( where beta gal is beta - galactosidase ) .
Assessment of starved HUVECs at 14 days demonstrated sixfold more cells for AdCMV . VEGF165 - infected HUVECs ( 20 pfu per cell ) than for either infected or uninfected control cells .
RASMC proliferation was unaffected by infection with AdCMV . VEGF165 .
When plated in 2 % serum on dishes precoated with reconstituted basement membrane ( Matrigel ) , HUVECs infected with AdCMV . VEGF165 ( 20 pfu per cell ) differentiated into capillary - like structures .
Under similar conditions , both uninfected HUVECs and HUVECs infected with AdCMV . beta gal did not differentiate .
To evaluate the ability of AdCMV . VEGF165 to function in vivo , either AdCMV .
VEGF165 or AdCMV . beta gal ( 2 x 10 ( 10 ) pfu ) was resuspended in 0 . 5 mL Matrigel and injected subcutaneously into mice .
Immunohistochemical staining demonstrated VEGF in the tissues surrounding the Matrigel plugs containing AdCMV . VEGF165 up to 3 weeks after injection , whereas no VEGF was found in the control plugs with AdCMV . beta gal .
Two weeks after injection , there was histological evidence of neovascularization in the tissues surrounding the Matrigel containing AdCMV . VEGF165 , whereas no significant angiogenesis was observed in response to AdCMV . beta gal .
Furthermore , the Matrigel plugs with AdCMV . VEGF165 demonstrated hemoglobin content fourfold higher than the plugs with AdCMV . beta gal .
Together , these in vitro and in vivo studies are consistent with the concept that Ad vectors may provide a useful strategy for efficient local delivery of VEGF165 in the treatment of ischemic diseases .
Modulation of apoptosis in human myeloid leukemic cells by GM - CSF .
Apoptosis ( programmed cell death ) regulates cell population size .
To determine the mechanisms whereby hematopoietic growth factors ( HGFs ) modulate apoptosis in human myeloid leukemic cells , we evaluated the roles of protein and mRNA synthesis for altering apoptosis in growth factor - stimulated vs . quiescent leukemic TF1 cells .
Lysates of cells from the granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor ( GM - CSF ) - dependent myeloid leukemic cell line TF1 were separated into high molecular weight ( HMW ) pellets of intact DNA and supernatants of fragmented low MW ( LMW ) DNA , and the DNA purified from these fractions was quantified .
In the absence of both GM - CSF and fetal bovine serum ( FBS ) , 70 % of the DNA was fragmented after 3 days in culture , with a characteristic apoptotic ladder - like pattern on agarose gel electrophoresis , whereas this proportion had initially been < 5 % .
In contrast , less than 5 % of the DNA was fragmented in cells incubated with GM - CSF plus FBS or GM - CSF alone .
Delayed addition of GM - CSF , but not FBS , permitted partial rescue of the cells , inhibiting increasing rates of accumulation of fragmented DNA .
When the macro - molecular synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide ( CHX ) or actinomycin D ( Act D ) was present for 26 hours in the absence of GM - CSF and FBS , apoptosis was inhibited .
In contrast , in the presence of GM - CSF or FBS , apoptosis was enhanced upon addition of CHX or Act D .
The latter effect persisted even with the late addition of CHX .
These findings indicate that disparate mechanisms of enhancing or inhibiting apoptosis exist in myeloid leukemic cells related to environmental conditions , including HGF - regulated cellular synthesis of distinct proteins and mRNA .
Effects of doxycycline on in vitro growth , migration , and gelatinase activity of breast carcinoma cells .
Metastatic disease is one of the major causes of death from cancer in human beings .
Several enzyme systems have been implicated in the metastatic process , but the metalloproteinases ( MPs ) appear to be the major group involved in most instances of neoplastic invasion .
Increased MP activity has been correlated with the metastatic potential of many cancers , including breast cancer .
MPs also play a role in tumor angiogenesis .
Tetracyclines are antimicrobial agents that can suppress MP activity in a variety of tissues , including gingiva , bone , and cartilage .
Several reports have indicated that tetracyclines can suppress tumor MPs as well .
A synthetic tetracycline , doxycycline , inhibits migration of human MDA - MB - 435 breast adenocarcinoma cells through a reconstituted basement membrane ( Matrigel ) , an assay used as an in vitro surrogate for the in vivo process of tumor invasion through basement membranes .
Additionally , doxycycline diminishes the proliferation of this breast cancer cell line and also decreases its gelatinolytic activity , as determined by gel zymography .
Transforming growth factor beta 1 promotes spontaneous transformation of cultured rat liver epithelial cells .
The neoplastic transformation of cultured rat liver epithelial cells by various means has consistently been associated with the development of resistance to the mito - inhibitory effect of transforming growth factor beta ( TGF - beta ) , suggesting that such phenotype plays a mechanistic role during the transformation of these cells .
The control WB cells in continuous culture slowly developed TGF - beta resistance .
However , when the same cells were exposed to step - wise increases of TGF - beta concentration in their culture medium , the development of TGF - beta resistance was accelerated .
Cells which had been grown in medium containing 1 ng / ml TGF - beta developed colony - forming capacity in soft agar containing epidermal growth factor .
Cells which were grown in media containing 5 and 10 ng / ml TGF - beta demonstrated a low level of colony - forming efficiency in soft agar medium without added epidermal growth factor and tumorigenicity in isogeneic rats .
These TGF - beta - resistant cells also exhibited progressively increasing levels of expression of the c - fos and and myc mRNA , and increased resistance to the cytotoxicity of Adriamycin and melphalan .
The latter phenomenon was accompanied by an increase in the mdr - 1 mRNA expression , cellular glutathione level , and glutathione S - transferase activity .
The results suggest that chronic exposure to high concentration of TGF - beta promotes the spontaneous neoplastic transformation of cultured rat liver epithelial cells , and that this process may represent one of the mechanisms of cellular adaptation for induction of the multidrug - resistant phenotype during the carcinogenesis of epithelial cells .
Identification of latency - associated transcripts that map antisense to the ICP4 homolog gene of Marek ' s disease virus .
Two small RNAs ( 0 . 9 and 0 . 75 kb ) , named Marek ' s disease virus ( MDV ) small RNAs ( MSRs ) and a 10 - kb RNA , all of which map antisense to the MDV ICP4 homolog gene , have been readily detected in MDCC - MSB1 MDV - transformed T - lymphoblastoid cells .
These RNAs were not detectable in reticuloendotheliosis virus - transformed T cells .
When MDV was reactivated by treatment of lymphoblastoid cells with 25 micrograms of iododeoxyuridine per ml , the relative levels of the transcripts decreased .
These RNAs were not detected by Northern ( RNA ) hybridization in productively infected chicken embryo fibroblasts 48 h postinfection ; however , they were apparent 140 h postinfection .
By using Northern hybridization , RNase protection assays , and primer extension analysis , the MSRs were determined to map antisense to the predicted translational start site of the ICP4 homolog gene .
The conclusion most consistent with the data is that the two MSRs are overlapping , spliced RNAs .
Both small RNAs contain a latency promoter binding factor consensus recognition sequence located toward their 5 ' ends as well as two potential ICP4 recognition consensus sequences , one in each orientation .
The region contains a number of small open reading frames on each side and within the MSRs .
Although the exact endpoints are unknown , the large 10 - kb species spans the entire ICP4 homolog region .
We believe that this group of RNAs , which map antisense to the ICP4 homolog gene , are latency - associated transcripts of MDV .
Increased expression of specific protein tyrosine phosphatases in human breast epithelial cells neoplastically transformed by the neu oncogene .
Protein tyrosine phosphorylation / dephosphorylation is a fundamental mechanism in the regulation of cell proliferation and neoplastic transformation ; this metabolic process is modulated by the opposing activities of protein tyrosine kinases and protein tyrosine phosphatases ( PTPases ) .
While the role of protein tyrosine kinases has been examined extensively in human breast tumorigenesis , the role of PTPases in this process is virtually unknown .
To address this issue , an activated neu oncogene was introduced into an immortalized nontumorigenic human breast epithelial cell line ( 184B5 ) .
This resulted in a substantial increase in P185neu expression , which led to the formation of progressively growing carcinomas after such cells were inoculated into athymic nude mice .
Importantly , a striking increase in the expression of specific PTPases , LAR and PTP1B , was observed in 3 independently neu transformed cell lines and their derived tumors .
This elevation was verified at both the mRNA and protein levels .
TC - PTP PTPase expression was only slightly increased in these neu transformed cells , and no expression of CD45 PTPase was observed .
The level of neu expression , as well as the differential expression between P185neu and LAR / PTP1B , directly correlated with tumorigenicity .
Furthermore , rat mammary carcinomas with elevated neu expression ( neu - induced ) also had sharply elevated LAR - PTPase expression when compared to rat mammary carcinomas with little or no neu expression ( 7 , 12 - dimethylbenzanthracene induced ) ; the level of expression of LAR PTPase was directly correlated with the level of neu expression .
Thus , our results provide the first evidence that , in human breast carcinoma cells and in rat mammary carcinomas that have an induced increase in neu expression , a consistent and substantial increase in the expression of specific PTPases occurs .
The relationship between P185neu - protein tyrosine kinase expression and specific PTPase expression may play a critical role in human breast tumorigenesis .
In vivo effects of insulin on tumor and skeletal muscle glucose metabolism in patients with lymphoma .
BACKGROUND : The anabolic properties of insulin have been suggested for use to reverse malnutrition associated with cancer .
The host and tumor sensitivities to insulin are critical for such treatments , which aim to improve patient nutrition .
The authors studied insulin effects on tumor and skeletal muscle metabolism with 2 - [ 18F ] - fluoro - 2 - deoxy - D - glucose ( [ 18F ] FDG ) and positron emission tomography ( PET ) .
METHODS : Six patients with lymphoma twice underwent [ 18F ] FDG - PET imaging : once after fasting overnight and once during euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp .
The dynamic uptake of the glucose analogue [ 18F ] FDG was measured in diseased nodes and upper arm skeletal muscle in both metabolic states .
The [ 18F ] FDG uptake in muscle and the whole body glucose use during euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp were compared with those of weight - matched healthy subjects studied under similar circumstances .
RESULTS : In lymphomatous tissue , [ 18F ] FDG uptake rates were similar in overnight fasting and euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp ( 38 + / - 10 versus 41 + / - 9 mumol / 100 g / minute , not significant ) , whereas glucose uptake in skeletal muscle was increased by insulin ( 1 . 7 + / - 0 . 2 versus 3 . 8 + / - 0 . 5 mumol / 100 g / minute , P = 0 . 012 ) .
Both basal ( 2 . 3 + / - 0 . 2 mumol / 100 g / minute , P = 0 . 061 ) and insulin - stimulated ( 8 . 5 + / - 1 . 9 mumol / 100 g / minute , P = 0 . 055 ) skeletal arm muscle glucose uptake rates were higher in control subjects than in patients .
Whole body glucose use was 55 % lower in patients than in control subjects ( 17 + / - 3 mumol / kg / minute versus 38 + / - 3 mumol / kg / minute , P = 0 . 002 ) , consistent with insulin resistance in cancer .
CONCLUSIONS : We found that insulin does not induce major changes in glucose uptake of lymphomatous tissue .
Although insulin sensitivity of skeletal muscle was also reduced in patients with lymphoma , the net insulin effect may counteract imbalance between glucose uptake of tumor and muscle , offering a potential means to circumvent at least some metabolic abnormalities found in cancer .
Effect of 1 - alkylpyrrolidine N - oxides on energy metabolism of cancer cells .
The main purpose of the present investigation was to study the effect of a homologous series of 1 - alkylpyrrolidine N - oxides on ATP - producing processes in Ehrlich ascites and L1210 murine leukemia cells .
The effect on aerobic glucose consumption , lactic acid formation , content of total ( T - SH ) and non - protein thiol groups ( NP - SH ) , endogenous respiration and the level of ATP in tumor cells incubated in vitro was investigated .
1 - Tetradecylpyrrolidine N - oxide ( TPNO ) , one of the most active compounds , immediately after addition to the suspension of Ehrlich cells in an ice bath , decreased the level of ATP to the same extent over the whole concentration range .
After 2 h incubation at 37 degrees C the drop in the ATP level was lower .
The decrease in ATP level might be explained through the interaction of the amine oxide with the cell membrane integrity .
Transformation - associated cytokine 9E3 / CEF4 is chemotactic for chicken peripheral blood mononuclear cells .
9E3 / CEF4 , which is released from transformed chicken embryo fibroblasts ( CEF ) , is a member of the platelet factor 4 family of inflammatory proteins and may be the avian homolog of interleukin - 8 .
Since the function of 9E3 / CEF4 is unknown , we examined the effect of the protein on mitogenicity and chemotaxis , as well as its expression , in fibroblasts and peripheral blood cells .
9E3 / CEF4 mRNA was expressed in chicken peripheral blood monocytes , and its expression was stimulated by incubation of the monocytes with lipopolysaccharide or phorbol myristic acetate .
Boyden double - membrane analysis of chemotaxis showed that 9E3 / CEF4 was chemotactic for chicken peripheral blood mononuclear cells , as well as for heterophils .
Untransformed CEF and CEF transformed with Rous sarcoma virus also migrated to 9E3 / CEF4 protein , as measured by Boyden single - membrane analysis .
9E3 / CEF4 was slightly mitogenic for CEF , causing a doubling of [ 3H ] thymidine uptake when added to serum - starved CEF . 9E3 / CEF4 was found associated not only with the cell and in the culture medium of Rous sarcoma virus - transformed CEF but also with the extracellular matrix .
The in vivo role of 9E3 / CEF4 may be involved with chemotaxis and metastasis , rather than with direct stimulation of mitogenicity .
Vitamins regulate gene expression and induce differentiation and growth inhibition in cancer cells .
Their relevance in cancer prevention .
Although several hypotheses for human carcinogenesis have been proposed , the specific genetic changes that cause normal cells to become cancer cells have not been identified .
In spite of uncertainties regarding the mechanisms of carcinogenesis , several vitamins such as beta - carotene and vitamins A , C , and E , which can reduce the risk of cancer , have been identified , using animal and in vitro models of carcinogenesis .
These studies have led to a hypothesis that the supplemental intake of these vitamins may reduce the risk of cancer .
This hypothesis in humans can be tested only by intervention trials that are in progress .
Prospective and retrospective case - controlled experimental designs are not suitable for testing the above hypothesis .
The fact that some vitamins induce cell differentiation and / or growth inhibition in tumor cells in culture suggests that the use of these vitamins in cancer prevention has a cellular basis .
In addition to having a direct effect on tumor cells , vitamins such as alpha - tocopheryl succinate and beta - carotene enhance the effect of other agents that induce differentiation in tumor cells .
Some vitamins like beta - carotene , retinoic acid , alpha - tocopheryl succinate , and vitamin D also regulate the expressions of certain oncogenes and cellular genes .
These are exciting new functions of vitamins that nobody could have predicted only a few years ago .
Increased nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 messenger RNA expression and absence of mutations in colon carcinomas of low and high metastatic potential .
BACKGROUND : The murine nm23 gene suppresses the metastatic behavior of malignant rodent tumor lines , and reduced nm23 expression correlates with increased likelihood of lymph node metastases in human breast cancers .
More recent data have demonstrated the existence of two human nm23 gene homologues , nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 , and have shown that deletion of nm23 - H1 alleles occurs in some colon carcinomas associated with poor prognosis .
These findings suggest that nm23 - H1 encodes for suppression of colon carcinoma metastasis .
In contrast , we have previously reported that total nm23 messenger RNA ( mRNA ) expression is increased to similar levels in colon tumors of both high and low metastatic potential .
PURPOSE : This study was designed to reconcile our previous findings with the recent report of nm23 - H1 allelic deletion in human colon cancers associated with poor prognosis .
Our purpose was to examine human colon cancers for inactivation of two candidate metastasis suppressor genes , nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 , either by mutation or by loss of gene transcription .
METHODS : We used ribonuclease protection assays to analyze human colon tumors for the level of nm23 - H1 ( 43 samples ) and nm23 - H2 ( 41 samples ) transcript ( mRNA ) expression and the presence of mutations that could inactivate potential suppressor function .
RESULTS : We detected only wild - type nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 mRNA .
Expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA increased in 33 of 41 colon tumors , and expression of nm23 - H2 mRNA was elevated in 28 of 41 colon tumors relative to that in matched normal mucosa .
Increases in these mRNA levels were similar in tumors of both low and high metastatic potential .
CONCLUSIONS : These results suggest that , despite correlation of nm23 - H1 allelic deletions with colon cancers associated with poor prognosis , nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 alleles do not directly mediate metastasis suppression in colon carcinoma .
Our results leave unexplained the observation that nm23 - H1 allelic deletion correlates with metastatic potential of colon carcinomas .
IMPLICATIONS : These findings also contrast with the demonstration of nm23 metastasis suppressor activity in murine melanoma and with the correlation of loss of nm23 expression in breast cancer with poor prognosis .
It may be that metastasis suppression by the nm23 gene is a tissue - specific phenomenon .
E mu - bcl - 2 transgene facilitates spontaneous transformation of early pre - B and immunoglobulin - secreting cells but not T cells .
To assess the lymphoid tumorigenic potential of bcl - 2 , mice of five independent strains expressing a bcl - 2 transgene in B and / or T cells were monitored for disease up to 12 months of age .
Lymphoma prevalence was minimal in the T lineage but significant , although low ( 3 - 15 % ) , in the B lineage .
The principal types of tumors were plasmacytomas secreting immunoglobulin and novel lymphomas that expressed markers such as Sca - 1 , CD4 , Thy - 1 , CD34 and CD45 ( B220 ) , consistent with an origin very early in B - lymphoid development .
Rearrangement of the c - myc gene was common in the plasmacytomas , implying a synergistic role for myc and bcl - 2 in their etiology , but was not detected in the lymphomas .
Tumorigenic activity of rho genes from Aplysia californica .
rho genes have been found in both lower and higher eucaryotes .
They code for proteins of 21 kDa , highly conserved in evolution , which belong to the superfamily of ras GTPases .
Among the members of this superfamily there are proteins with a regulatory function , such as ras , and proteins involved in vesicular trafficking , such as the family of rab proteins .
We have investigated the putative role of rho proteins from Aplysia californica as transforming GTPases utilizing the wild - type and a Val - 14 mutant , equivalent to the oncogenic Val - 12 mutation of ras genes found in animal and human tumors .
Over - expression of either rho gene was sufficient to confer anchorage - and serum - independent growth .
Moreover , when introduced into nude mice , selected clones generated from either gene were able to induce tumors , although those carrying the mutated version were more efficient .
Pathological analysis indicated that generated tumors corresponded to well - differentiated fibrosarcomas with distinct and intersecting bundles and spindle cells .
By contrast , ras - induced tumors were poorly differentiated fibrosarcomas .
Thus , our results indicate that under appropriate conditions rho genes function as oncogenes and may have a role in the regulation of proliferation in fibroblast cells .
Pancreatic somatostatin - secreting gangliocytic paraganglioma with lymph node metastases .
Gangliocytic paraganglioma ( GPG ) with local lymph node metastasis was found in the pancreas of a 74 - yr - old female who presented with diarrhea , steatorrhea , vomiting , nausea , and abdominal pain .
A Whipple procedure led to a complete resolution of these symptoms and a return of an elevated stomatostatin level to normal .
This is the first description of GPG in this location and the first endocrinologically active GPG .
Stimulation of endothelial cell migration by vascular permeability factor / vascular endothelial growth factor through cooperative mechanisms involving the alphavbeta3 integrin , osteopontin , and thrombin .
We have identified several mechanisms by which the angiogenic cytokine vascular permeability factor / vascular endothelial growth factor ( VPF / VEGF ) likely regulates endothelial cells ( EC ) migration .
VPF / VEGF induced dermal microvascular EC expression of mRNAs encoding the alphav and beta3 integrin subunits resulting in increased levels of the alphavbeta3 heterodimer at the cell surface , and VPF / VEGF also induced mRNA encoding osteopontin ( OPN ) , an alphavbeta3 ligand .
OPN promoted EC migration in vitro ; and VPF / VEGF induction of alphavbeta3 was accompanied by increased EC migration toward OPN .
Because thrombin cleavage of OPN results in substantial enhancement of OPN ' s adhesive properties , and because VPF / VEGF promotes increased microvascular permeability leading to activation of the extrinsic coagulation pathway , we also investigated whether VPF / VEGF facilitates thrombin cleavage of OPN in vivo .
Consistent with this hypothesis , co - injection of VPF / VEGF together with OPN resulted in rapid cleavage of OPN by endogenous thrombin .
Furthermore , in comparison with native OPN , thrombin - cleaved OPN stimulated a greater rate of EC migration in vitro , which was additive to the increased migration associated with induction of alpha v beta 3 .
Thus , these data demonstrate cooperative mechanisms for VPF / VEGF regulation of EC migration involving the alphavbeta3 integrin , the alphavbeta3 ligand OPN , and thrombin cleavage of OPN .
These findings also illustrate an operational link between VPF / VEGF induction of EC gene expression and VPF / VEGF enhancement of microvascular permeability , suggesting that these distinct biological activities may act accordingly to stimulate EC migration during angiogenesis .
c - erb B2 overexpression decreases the benefit of adjuvant tamoxifen in early - stage breast cancer without axillary lymph node metastases .
PURPOSE : We studied retrospectively the interaction between c - erbB2 overexpression and adjuvant tomoxifen in node - negative breast cancer patients enrolled in the Gruppo Universitario Napoletano 1 ( GUN - 1 ) trial .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : c - erbB2 , evaluated by immunohistochemistry in 145 of 173 patients randomly assigned to 2 - year adjuvant tamoxifen or no further therapy , was considered overexpressed if greater than 10 % of the cells showed specific membrane staining .
The role of each prognostic variable and their independent effect were studied using the Cox model .
Disease - free ( DFS ) and overall ( OAS ) survival curves were estimated by the Kaplan - Meier method .
RESULTS : As of November 30 , 1994 , the median follow - up period was 12 years .
c - erbB2 was overexpressed in 43 of 145 patients ( 29 . 7 % ) , which directly correlated with tumor size and inversely with estrogen receptor ( ER ) level .
At univariate analysis , overexpression of c - erbB2 did not affect either DFS or OAS ; tamoxifen had a greater effect on reducing the risk of recurrence than of death .
Addition of c - erbB2 to a multivariate Cox model that contained menopausal status , tumor size , nuclear grade , and treatment as covariates did not affect the significance of the model for DSF or OAS , whereas addition of the first - order interaction between c - erbB2 and tamoxifen was statistically significant both for DFS and OAS .
The same result was obtained when the model contained ER status and ER - tamoxifen interaction .
Indeed , adjuvant tamoxifen significantly prolonged DFS and OAS in c - erbB2 - negative cases , whereas it had no effect on DFS and OAS in c - erbB2 - positive patients .
CONCLUSION : In early - stage breast cancer patients , overexpression of c - erbB2 is a marker of lack of efficacy of adjuvant tamoxifen .
Gene transfer of naked DNA encoding for three isoforms of vascular endothelial growth factor stimulates collateral development in vivo .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is a naturally secreted endothelial cell - specific mitogen .
We investigated the hypothesis that naked DNA encoding for VEGF could be used in a strategy of arterial gene therapy to stimulate collateral artery development .
Plasmid DNA encoding each of the three principal human VEGF isoforms ( phVEGF121 , phVEGF165 , or phVEGF189 ) was applied to the hydrogel polymer coating of an angioplasty balloon and delivered percutaneously to one iliac artery of rabbits with operatively induced hindlimb ischemia .
Compared with control animals transfected with LacZ , site - specific transfection of phVEGF resulted in augmented collateral vessel development documented by serial angiography , and improvement in calf blood pressure ratio ( ischemic to normal limb ) , resting and maximum blood flow , and capillary to myocyte ratio .
Similar results were obtained with phVEGF121 , phVEGF165 , and phVEGF189 , which suggests that these isoforms are biologically equivalent with respect to in vivo angiogenesis .
The fact that viral or other adjunctive vectors were not required further suggests that secreted gene products may have potential therapeutic utility even when the number of successfully transfected cells remains low .
Arterial gene transfer of naked DNA encoding for a secreted angiogenic cytokine , thus , represents a potential alternative to recombinant protein administration for stimulating collateral vessel development .
Comparison of transformation by manganese sulfate and 5 - azacytidine in Rat 6 cells overexpressing the c - myc oncogene .
Rat 6 cells are not transformed by treatment with the well - known carcinogens benzo [ a ] pyrene ( BP ) or N - methyl - N - nitro - N ' - nitrosoguanidine ( MNNG ) .
Upon retroviral transduction of the mouse c - myc gene , Rat 6 cells showed mildly altered morphology and formed microcolonies in soft agar ; furthermore , they could be transformed by BP and MNNG to form large colonies in agar ( Hsiao et al . ( 1992 ) Mol . Carcinogenesis , 5 , 140 - 154 ) .
In the current report , we tested the sensitivity of the c - myc - overexpressing cells ( Rat 6 / c - myc ) to two additional chemicals : 5 - azacytidine and MnSO4 .
These chemicals differ from the direct - acting mutagens tested previously .
5 - Azacytidine , a potent DNA methylation inhibitor , induced growth of large colonies in soft agar cultures of Rat 6 or Rat 6 / c - myc cells .
On the other hand , MnSO4 only induced transformation in Rat 6 / c - myc cells , but not the parental Rat 6 cells .
Transformants induced by 5 - azacytidine lost c - myc - induced apoptotic cell death , whereas MnSO4 - induced transformants showed a higher degree of apoptosis than the parental Rat 6 / c - myc cells .
These results suggest that MnSO4 co - operates with overexpressed c - myc in inducing transformation , while 5 - azacytidine transformation is independent of c - myc overexpression and may involve alterations in the regulation of apoptosis .
Regulation of p53 - dependent apoptosis , transcriptional repression , and cell transformation by phosphorylation of the 55 - kilodalton E1B protein of human adenovirus type 5 .
The adenovirus type 5 55 - kDa E1B protein ( E1B - 55kDa ) cooperates with E1A gene products to induce cell transformation .
E1A proteins stimulate DNA synthesis and cell proliferation ; however , they also cause rapid cell death by p53 - dependent and p53 - independent apoptosis .
It is believed that the role of the E1B - 55kDa protein in transformation is to protect against p53 - dependent apoptosis by binding to and inactivating p53 .
It has been shown previously that the 55 - kDa polypeptide abrogates p53 - mediated transactivation and that mutants defective in p53 binding are unable to cooperate with E1A in transformation .
We have previously mapped phosphorylation sites near the carboxy terminus of the E1B - 55kDa protein at Ser - 490 and Ser - 491 , which lie within casein kinase II consensus sequences .
Conversion of these sites to alanine residues greatly reduced transforming activity , and although the mutant 55 - kDa protein was found to interact with p53 at normal levels , it was somewhat defective for suppression of p53 transactivation activity .
We now report that a nearby residue , Thr - 495 , also appears to be phosphorylated .
We demonstrate directly that the wild - type 55 - kDa protein is able to block E1A - induced p53 - dependent apoptosis , whereas cells infected by mutant pm490 / 1 / 5A , which contains alanine residues at all three phosphorylation sites , exhibited extensive DNA fragmentation and classic apoptotic cell death .
The E1B - 55kDa product has been shown to exhibit intrinsic transcriptional repression activity when localized to promoters , such as by fusion with the GAL4 DNA - binding domain , even in the absence of p53 .
Such repression activity was totally absent with mutant pm490 / 1 / 5A .
These data suggested that inhibition of p53 - dependent apoptosis may depend on the transcriptional repression function of the 55 - kDa protein , which appears to be regulated be phosphorylation at the carboxy terminus .
Non - invasive grading of primary brain tumours : results of a comparative study between SPET with 123I - alpha - methyl tyrosine and PET with 18F - deoxyglucose .
Use of iodine - 123 - alpha - methyl tyrosine ( 123I - IMT ) allows investigation of the amino acid transport rate in gliomas .
It was the aim of this study to compare the value of measurement of glucose metabolism with that of measurement of 123I - IMT uptake for the non - invasive grading of brain tumours .
The study population comprised 23 patients with histopathologically proven primary brain tumours ; 14 had high - grade gliomas , and nine low - grade brain neoplasms .
Glucose metabolism was studied using an ECAT EXACT 47 positron emission tomography ( PET ) camera and fluorine - 18 fluorodeoxyglucose ( 18F - FDG ) ; 123I - IMT uptake was measured with the triple - headed single - photon emission tomography ( SPET ) camera , MULTISPECT 3 .
18F - FDG and 123I - IMT uptake was quantified as ratios between the uptake by the tumour and contralateral regions of reference .
Glucose metabolism and amino acid uptake of the brain tumours correlated significantly ( r = 0 . 71 , P < 0 . 001 ) .
Assuming discrimination thresholds between high - grade and low - grade tumours of 0 . 8 for 18F - FDG uptake and 1 . 8 for 123I - IMT uptake , the accuracy values of 18F - FDG PET and 123I - IMT SPET for differentiating between high - grade and low - grade tumours were 21 / 23 ( 91 % ) and 19 / 23 ( 83 % ) , respectively .
The difference in diagnostic performance was not significant on receiver operating characteristic analysis ( P > 0 . 4 ) .
It is concluded that there is no major difference between the PET investigation of glucose metabolism and the less expensive SPET measurement of amino acid uptake in terms of their accuracy in evaluating the malignancy grade of primary brain tumours .
This encourages the performance of further studies to analyse the potential impact of 123I - IMT SPET on the therapeutic management of patients with brain tumours .
The Wilms tumor suppressor gene WT1 induces G1 arrest and apoptosis in myeloblastic leukemia M1 cells .
WT1 was isolated as a tumor suppressor gene of Wilms tumor .
However , high expression of WT1 correlates with poor prognosis in acute leukemia .
In addition suppression of WT1 expression by WT1 anti - sense oligonucleotide inhibits proliferation of leukemia cells , suggesting that WT1 is important for their proliferation .
To further elucidate the biological significance of WT1 in leukemic cell growth , we overexpressed exogenous WT1 in murine M1 myeloblastic leukemia cells using the isopropyl - beta - D - thiogalactoside ( IPTG ) - controlled expression system .
We found that induction of one splicing variant of WT1 [ WT1 - 17AA ( + ) - KTS ( - ) ] in M1 cells induces cell cycle arrest and apoptotic cell death .
These results suggest that the role of WT1 is different depending on the type of leukemia cell in which it is expressed .
[ Expression of metastasis suppressor gene nm23 in human hepatocellular carcinoma ] .
For the purpose of investigating the relationship between the metastatic potential of the tumor as well as the expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA , and for determing the location of the positive sites in the cells , tumor metastasis suppressor gene nm23 - H1 in human hepatocellular carcinoma ( and the nonneoplastic area surrounding the tumor ) was detected by in situ hybridization using digoxiginin - labeled nm23 - H1 antisense complementary RNA probe .
The primary results indicated ( i ) positive results of in situ hybridization are presence of granules or masses in the cytoplasm ; ( ii ) the less expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA , the higher metastatic rate of the human hepatocellular carcinoma ( P < 0 . 05 ) ; ( iii ) expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA dose not correlate with some other factors such as tumor size and the background of other liver diseases .
CD56 + putative natural killer cell lymphomas : production of cytolytic effectors and related proteins mediating tumor cell apoptosis ?
Apoptosis is a regulated form of cell death that may be triggered by natural killer ( NK ) or cytotoxic T cells , which effect target cell lysis by cytolytic effector and related proteins through complex intracellular signals .
This study was aimed to investigate whether there is selective expression of these cytolytic markers in the putative NK - cell lymphomas and whether there is correlation with zonal tumor cell death in these tumors .
Expression of the cytolytic effectors perforin , granzyme B9 , and the granule membrane protein TIA1 were examined in 24 putative NK - cell lymphomas , 18 postthymic T - cell lymphomas ( one case CD8 + CD56 + and three anaplastic large cell lymphomas ( ALCL ) , three T - lymphoblastic lymphomas , and 20 B - cell lymphomas .
Nineteen ( 79 % ) putative NK - cell lymphomas expressed perforin , and all 24 cases expressed granzyme B9 and TIA1 .
The only CD8 + CD56 + postthymic T - cell lymphoma also expressed all three cytolytic markers , two CD8 - ALCL expressed TIA1 ; other postthymic T - cell , T - lymphoblastic , and B - cell lymphomas were consistently negative .
There was strong correlation between percentage perforin - positive cells and zonal tumor cell death .
Angioinvasion , in contrast , was present only in a proportion ( 37 % ) of these lymphomas despite the frequent presence of zonal tumor cell death ( 71 % ) .
We propose that cytolytic effector and related proteins produced by putative NK and some CD8 + CD56 + postthymic T - cell lymphomas , probably in conjunction with other mechanisms , may effect massive tumor cell apoptosis .
The frequent expression of cytolytic effector markers in the CD2 + surface CD3 - CD56 + putative NK - cell lymphomas lends further support to their probable NK cell origin .
Prophylactic thyroidectomy in MEN IIA : does the calcitonin level correlate with tumor spread ?
BACKGROUND : The fate of patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia of type II A ( MEN II A ) is determined by medullary thyroid carcinoma , which occurs in all cases .
This has led to the therapeutic concept of prophylactic thyroidectomy in affected family members with the goal of removing the thyroid before the manifestation of carcinoma .
We investigated a prophylactically thyroidectomized MEN II A population to determine whether the highly specific and sensitive tumor marker calcitonin correlates with tumor spread .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : Fifteen patients with MEN II A ( aged 4 - 24 years ) who had undergone prophylactic thyroidectomy since 1990 were included in the study .
Baseline and pentagastrin - stimulated calcitonin levels were preoperatively determined in all cases .
The indication for surgery was established on the basis of pathologic calcitonin levels in the first seven patients and on the basis of detected RET proto - oncogene mutation in the other eight patients .
Bilateral central lymphadenectomy was performed in all patients in addition to thyroidectomy .
RESULTS : Histology demonstrated C - cell hyperplasia in five patients ( aged 4 - 13 years ) , unilateral medullary microcarcinoma in six ( aged 9 - 17 years ) and a bilateral medullary microcarcinoma in three cases ( aged 17 - 24 years ) .
One 9 - year - old boy with bilateral microcarcinoma already had a lymph node metastasis .
The mean baseline calcitonin level correlated with the histologic findings ( r = 0 . 71 , P = 0 . 003 ) but there was no correlation between pentagastrin - stimulated calcitonin levels and histology ( r = 0 . 21 , P = 0 . 47 ) .
CONCLUSION : In MEN II A patients undergoing prophylactic thyroidectomy , baseline but not stimulated calcitonin levels already correlate with the histologic tumor stage at the stage of clinically occult C - cell hyperplasia or medullary microcarcinoma .
However , biochemical screening cannot reliably discriminate the transition from C - cell hyperplasia to invasive microcarcinoma .
Individuals with MEN IIA should therefore undergo early prophylactic thyroidectomy once the diagnosis is confirmed by molecular genetic testing .
Induction of Ets - 1 in endothelial cells during reendothelialization after denuding injury .
Ets - 1 , a transcription factor , is induced in endothelial cells ( ECs ) during angiogenesis .
Here , we investigated the expression of Ets - 1 during reendothelialization .
When a confluent monolayer of human umbilical vein endothelial cell line , ECV304 , was denuded , ECV304 at the wound edge expressed Ets - 1 .
An immunohistochemical analysis revealed that Ets - 1 accumulated in migrating cells at the wound edge and returned to basal level when reendothelialization was accomplished .
This induction of Ets - 1 could be reproduced in in vivo denudation of rat aortic endothelium by a balloon catheter .
The induction of Ets - 1 in ECs after denudation was regulated transcriptionally , and humeral factors released from injured ECs might not be responsible .
Mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) activities were investigated to explore the mechanism of this induction .
Although extracellular signal - regulated protein kinase 1 / 2 ( ERK1 / 2 ) , c - Jun N - terminal kinase 1 ( JNK1 ) , and p38 were activated after denudation , the activation of ERK1 and p38 was more rapid and prominent .
PD98059 , a specific MAPK / ERK kinase ( MEK ) 1 inhibitor , did not affect the induction of ets - 1 mRNA , whereas SB203580 , a specific p38 inhibitor , almost completely abrogated its induction .
These results indicate that Ets - 1 is induced in ECs after denudation through activation of p38 .
This induction of Ets - 1 may be relevant for reendothelialization by regulating the expression of certain genes .
SV40 Tag transformation of the normal invasive trophoblast results in a premalignant phenotype .
I .
Mechanisms responsible for hyperinvasiveness and resistance to anti - invasive action of TGFbeta .
Invasion of the uterus by first trimester human placental extravillous trophoblast ( EVT ) cells depends on mechanisms shared by malignant cells .
However , unlike tumor invasion , trophoblast invasion of the uterus is stringently controlled in situ by local molecules such as transforming growth factor ( TGF ) beta .
Since EVT cells possess active invasion - associated genes but are nontumorigenic , our objective was to induce premalignant and then malignant phenotype into a normal EVT cell line in order to identify the molecular basis of tumor progression .
Simian virus 40 large T antigen ( SV40 Tag ) was introduced into a normal human first trimester invasive EVT cell line , HTR8 , established in our laboratory .
Since the HTR8 line has a limited in vitro lifespan of 12 - 15 passages , SV40 Tag - transformed cells were selected on the basis of extended lifespan .
A long - lived line , RSVT - 2 , was produced and an immortalized subclone , RSVT2 / C , was further derived under a forced crisis regimen .
We examined transformation - induced alterations in proliferative and invasive abilities , responses to the invasion and proliferation - regulating growth factor TGFbeta and changes in gene expression for invasion - associated enzymes or enzyme inhibitors .
RSVT - 2 and RSVT2 / C cell lines were hyperproliferative and hyperinvasive when compared with the parental HTR8 cell line .
They were also variably resistant to the anti - proliferative and anti - invasive signals from TGFbeta .
Since both cell lines remained non - tumorigenic in nude mice , these properties indicate that they attained a premalignant phenotype .
Both cell lines showed reduced expression of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteases ( TIMP ) - 1 , while TIMP - 2 and plasminogen activator inhibitor ( PAI ) - I expression was was also reduced in RSVT2 / C cells , thus contributing to their hyperinvasiveness .
Their resistance to the anti - invasive action of TGFbeta was explained by the failure of TGFbeta to upregulate TIMPs and PAI - I , in contrast to the TGFbeta - induced upregulation noted in parental HTR8 cells .
Expression of two type II - like tumor hexokinase RNA transcripts in cancer cell lines .
To maintain an elevated glycolytic rate , cancerous or proliferating cells alter the expression pattern of rate limiting glycolytic enzymes .
Since glucose phosphorylation is the first step in glycolysis , hexokinase ( HK ) , the first rate limiting glycolytic enzyme , can play a key regulatory role in this process .
A low - Km , mitochondrial type II - like tumor HK is described as the predominant form in hepatomas .
However , recent identification of a high - Km glucose phosphorylating activity in a range of cancer cells prompted us to characterize glucose phosphorylating enzymes of cancer cells at the molecular level .
Highly sensitive reverse - transcription polymerase chain reaction identifies an induction and overexpression of a type II - like tumor HK RNA in a range of cancer cell lines irrespective of tissue origin .
In addition , we report here the identification of two RNA transcripts of type II - like tumor HK of approximately 5 . 5 and approximately 4 . 0 kb in these cancer cells lines , including muscle - derived L6 myoblast cells .
Interestingly , under normal conditions muscle cells express only a approximately 5 . 5 - kb type II HK RNA transcript .
A significant amount of type I HK RNA was also found expressed in cancer cell lines .
RNA encoding glucokinase ( GK ) , the high - Km HK isozyme , was found only in cancer cells originating from liver and pancreas , which express GK under normal conditions .
Homeobox genes in hematopoiesis and leukemogenesis .
Homeobox genes have a strikingly conserved 61 - amino acid sequence , encoding DNA - binding domain .
Some homeobox genes , located in four clusters are designated HOX A through D , while others are known as divergent homeobox genes .
Many researchers have demonstrated that hematopoietic cells express many homeobox genes .
Induced over - and under - expression of these genes has been used to demonstrate their affect on some aspects of hematopoiesis and leukemogenesis .
Recently , knock - out mice of homeobox genes by targeted disruption have also been used to examine their hematological effect .
There are examples of the aberrant expression of a homeobox gene causing leukemias in humans .
In pre - B acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ) with t ( 1 ; 19 ) translocation , a fusion protein is created between E2A and a homeobox gene PBX .
In T - cell ALL with t ( 10 ; 14 ) translocation , the HOX 11 gene is deregulated .
In acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) with t ( 7 ; 11 ) translocation , the HOX A9 gene is rearranged .
In this review article , many functions of homeobox genes both at the early stem cell level as well as at the later stages of hematopoietic differentiation , and the leukemogenic effect of altered homeobox genes are discussed .
Store - operated calcium entry promotes shape change in pulmonary endothelial cells expressing Trp1 .
Activation of Ca2 + entry is known to produce endothelial cell shape change , leading to increased permeability , leukocyte migration , and initiation of angiogenesis in conduit - vessel endothelial cells .
The mode of Ca2 + entry regulating cell shape is unknown .
We hypothesized that activation of store - operated Ca2 + channels ( SOCs ) is sufficient to promote cell shape change necessary for these processes .
SOC activation in rat pulmonary arterial endothelial cells increased free cytosolic Ca2 + that was dependent on a membrane current having a net inward component of 5 . 45 + / - 0 . 90 pA / pF at - 80 mV .
Changes in endothelial cell shape accompanied SOC activation and were dependent on Ca2 + entry - induced reconfiguration of peripheral ( cortical ) filamentous actin ( F - actin ) .
Because the identity of pulmonary endothelial SOCs is unknown , but mammalian homologues of the Drosophila melanogaster transient receptor potential ( trp ) gene have been proposed to form Ca2 + entry channels in nonexcitable cells , we performed RT - PCR using Trp oligonucleotide primers in both rat and human pulmonary arterial endothelial cells .
Both cell types were found to express Trp1 , but neither expressed Trp3 nor Trp6 .
Our study indicates that 1 ) Ca2 + entry in pulmonary endothelial cells through SOCs produces cell shape change that is dependent on site - specific rearrangement of the microfilamentous cytoskeleton and 2 ) Trp1 may be a component of pulmonary endothelial SOCs .
Glucose and lactate metabolism in C6 glioma cells : evidence for the preferential utilization of lactate for cell oxidative metabolism .
13C and 1H nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( NMR ) was used to investigate the metabolism of L - lactate and D - glucose in C6 glioma cells .
The 13C enrichment of cell metabolites was examined after a 4 - h incubation in media containing 5 . 5 mM glucose and 11 mM lactate , each metabolite being alternatively labelled with either [ 1 - 13C ] D - glucose or [ 3 - 13C ] L - lactate .
The results indicated that exogenous lactate was the major substrate for oxidative metabolism .
They were consistent with the concept of the existence of 2 pools of both lactate and pyruvate , of which 1 pool was closely connected with exogenous lactate and oxidative metabolism , and the other pool was closely related to glycolysis and disconnected from oxidative metabolism .
The molecular basis of this behaviour could be related to different locations for the lactate dehydrogenase isoenzymes , as suggested by their immunohistochemical labelling .
Tumors of the retinal pigment epithelium metastasize to inguinal lymph nodes and spleen in tyrosinase - related protein 1 / SV40 T antigen transgenic mice .
The pigment epithelium of the retina ( RPE ) is derived from the optic cup and is essential for function and development of the eye .
We produced a transgenic mouse line that expresses simian virus ( SV40 ) transforming sequences under control of the 1 . 4 kb tyrosinase - related protein 1 ( TRP - 1 ) promoter , targeting expression of T antigen ( Tag ) to the RPE .
In transgenic embryos , RPE cells proliferated in the anterior part of the eye and near the optic nerve .
This resulted in formation of tumors , which were pigmented and of epithelial origin .
In 3 months - old mice , pigmented cells were detected in spleen and inguinal lymph nodes .
In spleen , tyrosinase , TRP - 1 and SV40 Tag were expressed and tyrosinase was enzymatically active .
Pigmented regions were positive for an epithelial marker , cytokeratin .
Cell lines were established from tumor and metastases and kept in culture for more than 2 months .
These were pigmented , and maintained expression of tyrosinase , TRP - 1 , cytokeratin and SV40 Tag .
This demonstrates that RPE tumor cells metastasize to lymph node and spleen .
In conclusion , the metastasis from TRP - 1 / Tag RPE tumors towards spleen and lymph nodes serves as potential tool to investigate biology and metastasis of tumors derived from the pigment epithelium .
Effect of U - 995 , a potent shark cartilage - derived angiogenesis inhibitor , on anti - angiogenesis and anti - tumor activities .
BACKGROUND : A potent angiogenesis inhibitor , U - 995 , has been purified from the cartilage of the blue shark ( Prionace glauca ) .
U - 995 is composed of two single peptides with molecular mass of 10 and 14 kDa , respectively .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : U - 995 was designed to study human umbilical vein endothelial cell ( HUVEC ) migration and proliferation in vitro and angiogenesis induced by TNF alpha in chicken chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) .
Furthermore , we determined the ability of U - 995 to inhibiting tumor cell growth and metastasis .
RESULTS : U - 995 ( 15 and 30 micrograms / ml ) markedly inhibited HUVEC migration and , at 15 - 50 micrograms / ml produced a dose - dependent decline in [ 3H ] - thymidine incorporation .
30 and 50 micrograms / ml of U - 995 , when added to TNF alpha - induced angiogenesis caused discontinuous and disrupted blood vessels .
Moreover , U - 995 ( 30 micrograms / ml ) markedly prevented collagenase - induced collagenolysis .
In addition , when 200 micrograms U - 995 was injected i . p . into mice it suppressed sarcoma - 180 cell growth and B16 - F10 mouse melanoma cell metastasis in vivo .
CONCLUSIONS : These results suggest that the anti - angiogenic effects of U - 995 may be be due to interference with the proliferation and migration of HUVECs as well as inhibition of collagenolysis , thereby leading to inhibition of both angiogenesis and tumor cell growth .
