VEGF and p53 expressions were observed in 40 % and 53 % of the tumors , respectively .
Malignancy in cancer is associated with aerobic glycolysis ( Warburg effect ) evidenced by increased trapping of [ ( 18 ) F ] deoxyglucose ( FdG ) in patients imaged by positron emission tomography ( PET ) .
However , we need to determine whether it happens in breast cancer .
For this reason , formalin - fixed , paraffin - embedded specimens from 130 patients with squamous cell lung carcinomas were analyzed by immunohistochemistry .
As HIF - 2alpha activity has been associated not only with hypoxic but also with hypoglycemic conditions , we have investigated putative effects of hypoxia , glucose depletion , and HIF - 2alpha on the neuroblastoma phenotype .
Hypoxic induction of HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma lines is mediated by stress activated protein kinases .
In the current study , we have shown that loss of function by either targeted allele deletion or use of a soluble form of Dll4 extracellular domain leads to inhibition of Notch signaling , resulting in increased vascular proliferation but defective maturation .
To explore the mechanisms underlying Evi - 1 - induced oncogenesis , we investigated whether Evi - 1 affects the signaling of transforming growth factor beta ( TGF - beta ) , which inhibits proliferation of a wide range of cell types and is one of the most studied growth regulatory factors .
Tail vein injection of N - ( 1 - ( 2 , 3 - dioleoyloxy ) propyl ) - N , N , N - trimethylammonium chloride ( DOTAP ) / cholesterol lipoplexes resulted in increased lipoplex entrapment in hypervascularized liver but did not boost luciferase expression , suggesting that lipoplex delivery is not a sufficient condition for efficient organ lipofection .
In breast cancer , biomarkers that specifically correlate with the invasive phenotypes have not been clearly identified .
Finally , inhibition of Id - 1 expression results in G ( 2 ) / M accumulation of FGF - 2 - treated cells and delayed cell death .
The expression of endostatin in situ and its maintaining time were detected by immunohistochemistry and Western Blot , respectively .
No significant association was also observed between nm23 - H1 gene product expression in lymph nodes and the patients survival .
These findings suggest that c - Ski overexpression promotes the growth of diffuse - type gastric carcinoma through induction of angiogenesis .
To understand the molecular pathway in Hoxa9 / Meis1 - induced leukemogenesis , retroviral insertional mutagenesis was applied using retrovirus - mediated gene transfer .
Apparently , several in vivo phosphorylation sites were recognized in vitro in both large T - antigen and p53 , but the presence of some artifactual sites could not be completely excluded .
Differentially expressed genes were identified , and a subset was evaluated by quantitative real - time PCR and immunohistochemistry .
Yet , the net outcome of Ang - 2 functions on tumor angiogenesis is believed to be contextual depending on the local cytokine milieu .
Treatment of cultured human endothelial cells with DAPT , a gamma secretase inhibitor , increased cell migration and sprout formation in response to VEGF stimulation with a biphasic dependence on DAPT concentration .
TS - 1 is a new , oral anticancer agent composed of two modulators , gimeracil ( CDHP ) and oteracil potassium ( Oxo ) are mixed with tegafur in a ratio of 1 : 0 . 4 : 1 .
The inhibition of tumor growth and changes of survival were recorded and the microvessel density ( MVD ) was determined by histochemical stainingwith CD31 and CD105 antibodies .
Cytochrome - c staining was diffused in the cytoplasm of the apoptotic cells , but restricted to the mitochondria in control cells .
After staining samples for alpha - SMA , their expression was extracted and quantified as a relative percentage by computer - assisted image analysis .
The largely restricted CCL16 expression in the liver suggests that this chemokine may play a role in hepatic vascular formation during development and in angiogenesis associated to hepatic diseases .
To address this question further , we analyzed the expression of c - myc in a myeloblastic cell line , M1 , expressing a conditionally active c - Myb - estrogen receptor fusion protein ( MybER ) .
CONCLUSION : In conclusion , we strongly suggest that docetaxel and ATRA combination is a good candidate for this challenging era of daily oncologic practice .
In a first step , proteins were selected which showed a relationship to lymph node involvement .
H4IIEC3 ( H4 ) , a differentiated rat hepatoma line and H5 , its dedifferentiated subclone , were investigated as proliferating spheroids and as implanted subcutaneous tumors in juvenile rats .
Among a myriad of biological activities described for xanthone derivatives , the anticancer activity is quite remarkable , but the molecular mechanism is not clearly resolved .
Administration of 317615 x 2HCl along with carboplatin to animals bearing the SKOV - 3 tumor produced a 1 . 8 - fold increase in lifespan compared with carboplatin alone .
In contrast , neither VEGF mRNA nor secreted protein was found in uninfected HUVECs or RASMCs or in cells infected with the control vector AdCMV . beta gal ( where beta gal is beta - galactosidase ) .
These results indicate the possibility that activation of angiogenic activity after resection of osteosarcoma tumors enhances progression of pulmonary metastasis .
BACKGROUND : The coagulation function in patients with pancreatic carcinoma is abnormal and the reason is not very clear .
Glucose and lactate metabolism in C6 glioma cells : evidence for the preferential utilization of lactate for cell oxidative metabolism .
Anti - Fas treatment resulted in decreased p53 protein levels , while bcl - 2 and bax protein levels remained unaffected .
Our studies highlight the plasticity of aggressive human ovarian carcinoma cells and call into question the underlying significance of their ability to form VM in vitro induced by VEGF - a .
These results show that Fas - signaling exerted a suppressive effect on p53 levels and on downstream effectors of receptor tyrosine kinase signal transduction , thereby ensuring cell death .
PURPOSE : We prepared tumor endothelium targeted cRGD - modified heparin derivative ( cRGD - HL ) by coupling heparin - lithocholic acid ( HL ) with cRGDyK , and evaluated inhibition effects of cRGD - HL on angiogenesis and tumor growth .
On the contrary , there was intense staining for HER2 on the basolateral membrane of epithelial cells of intestinal metaplasia ( 22 / 24 ; 91 . 7 % ) and carcinoma in situ ( 9 / 10 ; 90 % ) , the lesions that displayed a significantly high proliferation index .
There is a highly significant correlation between the magnitude of changes in the number of cytochalasin B binding sites and the magnitude of changes in glucose uptake .
Uncultured peripheral blood T - cells from human T - cell leukemia - lymphoma virus - infected individuals expressed DR antigens at a low level , and the DR alpha locus was partially unmethylated .
Both were positive for HIF - 1alpha and phosphorylated c - Myc , and only one was positive for pAkt .
Western blot analysis demonstrated increased active form SREBP in migrating as compared to non - migrating ECs population .
In vivo , cediranib ( 6 mg / kg / d ) prevented angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis induced by VEGF - E - expressing and VEGF - C156S - expressing adenoviruses , respectively .
All four metastatic hybrids expressed 60 - 72 kDa gelatinase activity , while three of them also had 92 kDa activity and one had only minimal 92 kDa activity .
Additionally , doxycycline diminishes the proliferation of this breast cancer cell line and also decreases its gelatinolytic activity , as determined by gel zymography .
Arterial gene transfer of naked DNA encoding for a secreted angiogenic cytokine , thus , represents a potential alternative to recombinant protein administration for stimulating collateral vessel development .
Various cellular kinases , among them members of the CK1 family , play an important role in modulating the transforming activity of SV40 , including the transforming activity of T - Ag , the major transforming protein of SV40 , itself .
Human pituitary tumor transforming gene ( PTTG ) overexpression correlates with metastasis in multiple tumors , and yet its molecular mechanisms of action remain elusive .
Transformation - associated cytokine 9E3 / CEF4 is chemotactic for chicken peripheral blood mononuclear cells .
During embryogenesis , vascular and hemopoietic cells originate from a common precursor , the hemangioblast .
Immunohistochemically stained sections of tumour were allocated a score for stain intensity and results correlated to : survival ; tumour stage ( T ) ; nodal stage ( N ) ; stage grouping ( I to IIIb ) , survival status and sex .
The early closure of all wounds implies that the rabbit ear model may not be valid for chronic wound studies .
Retinal microangiopathies overlying pigment epithelial detachment in age - related macular degeneration .
Serum and urine levels of interleukin - 8 in patients with non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma .
Here we show that expression of TEL in Ras - transformed NIH 3T3 cells inhibits cell growth in soft agar and in normal cultures .
This review will focus on recent studies to define the molecular mechanisms for the antivascular actions of the MBDs , information that could be useful in the identification or design of agents whose actions more selectively target the tumor vasculature .
To characterize the effects of CK1delta on SV40 - induced mammary carcinogenesis , we generated transgenic mice expressing mutant CK1delta under the control of the whey acidic protein ( WAP ) gene promoter , and crossed them with SV40 transgenic WAP - T - antigen ( WAP - T ) mice .
The present study aimed to investigate whether PTEN promoter methylation was involved in CCMs .
The main purpose of the present investigation was to study the effect of the homologous series of 4 - alkylmorpholine N - oxides on ATP - producing processes in Ehrlich ascites and L1210 murine leukaemia cells .
Transforming growth factor - beta ( TGF - beta ) , a major factor in the activation of fibroblasts , increased alpha - SMA and desmin expression and the ability of cell migration and invasion in NIH3T3 cells .
We verified the predicted ELK - 1 - - > tPA transcriptional regulatory relationship using a luciferase reporter assay .
These drugs , however , exhibit severe side effects and are expensive .
Solid tumors express a range of factors required to sustain their growth and promote their dissemination .
In patients who transform to overt MDS or AML , hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is the only chance for cure .
This has been suggested as one of the mechanisms to explain the mammography paradox for women aged 40 - 49 years .
Human papillomavirus oncoprotein E6 inactivates the transcriptional coactivator human ADA3 .
Groups 1 and 2 consisted of 48 patients without DR and 42 patients with PDR , respectively .
Using c - FLIP anti - sense oligonucleotides to down - regulate c - FLIP we sensitized DU145 cells to CH - 11 - induced apoptosis .
PURPOSE : To determine the most efficient time point and concentration of topical corticosteroids in Candida albicans keratitis treated with fluconazole .
The hybrid cells , however , exhibited normal morphology , anchorage requirement for proliferation , and largely extended latency periods of tumorigenicity in newborn rats .
In defined medium , both oncogenic TDM are constitutively autophosphorylated and inefficiently downregulated .
In parallel , we assessed several human melanoma biopsy samples and found again that AKT2 was the predominantly activated AKT in these human melanoma biopsies .
In the present study , we investigated in vivo the regulation of leukocyte - vessel wall interactions by the presence of a tumor .
We show here that constitutively active STAT3 acts as a master regulator of cell metabolism , inducing aerobic glycolysis and down - regulating mitochondrial activity both in primary fibroblasts and in STAT3 - dependent tumour cell lines .
These results could explain the angiogenic and tumor - promoting effect of thrombin and provide the basis for development of thrombin receptor mimetics or antagonists for therapeutic application .
The main purpose of the present investigation was to study the effect of a homologous series of 1 - alkylpyrrolidine N - oxides on ATP - producing processes in Ehrlich ascites and L1210 murine leukemia cells .
In 1986 , Dvorak went on to demonstrate that VPF was secreted by a variety of human tumor cell lines and proposed that VPF was in part responsible for the abnormal vasculature seen in human tumors .
It is interesting that certain components of neutrophil cytotoxic arsenal ( ROS , cytokines , specific enzymes ) participate both in antitumoral defenses of an organism and protumoral activity .
In a variety of cell types , the glycolipid - anchored urokinase receptor ( uPAR ) is colocalized pericellularly with components of the plasminogen activation system and endocytosis receptors .
In all cases , the somatostatin receptors were localized in veins , particularly in the smooth - muscle cell layer .
This study was designed to evaluate the potential implication of stromelysin - 3 ( ST3 ) , a newly identified member of the matrix - degrading metalloproteinase family , and of BM - 40 / SPARC , a glycoprotein associated with the extracellular matrix , during the progression of human colorectal cancers .
The mechanisms whereby RNA leukemia viruses cause lymphoid neoplasia after a long latent period have been extensively studied but are only partially understood .
PURPOSE : This study was designed to reconcile our previous findings with the recent report of nm23 - H1 allelic deletion in human colon cancers associated with poor prognosis .
Juice and peels , for example , possess potent antioxidant properties , while juice , peel and oil are all weakly estrogenic and heuristically of interest for the treatment of menopausal symptoms and sequellae .
Finally , Bcl - 2 is significantly increased in the neuroblastoma cells cultured in the conditioned media .
On the mechanism of glycolysis stimulation by neutral detergents in 3T3 and Ehrlich ascites tumor cells .
Contemporary perspectives on vital pulp therapy : views from the endodontists and pediatric dentists .
We show that restoration of FOXO3a in FOXO3a - deficient LAC cells increases sensitivity to apoptosis caused by a DNA - damaging intermediate of NNK .
Interestingly , c - Ski overexpression resulted in extensive acceleration of the growth of subcutaneous xenografts in BALB / c nu / nu female mice ( 6 weeks of age ) .
This model suggests that forced expression of CDK4 sensitizes cells and synergizes with a second change resulting in tumor development .
In order to appropriately move NF - kappaB inhibitors in the clinic , thorough approaches must be initiated to determine the molecular mechanisms that dictate the complexity of oncologic and therapeutic outcomes that are controlled by NF - kappaB .
The principal types of tumors were plasmacytomas secreting immunoglobulin and novel lymphomas that expressed markers such as Sca - 1 , CD4 , Thy - 1 , CD34 and CD45 ( B220 ) , consistent with an origin very early in B - lymphoid development .
Tumor promotion is due to induction of inflammation that results in enhanced pneumocyte proliferation and is abrogated by IKKbeta ablation in myeloid cells or inactivation of JNK1 .
Activated Hck and membrane - anchored Cbl are present in similar subcellular localizations and co - immunoprecipitate , suggesting that their interaction is required for subsequent ubiquitination and degradation .
Patients with liver and / or bone metastases had significantly higher median concentrations of S - 100beta , IL - 6 and IL - 10 than those with only skin , nodal and / or lung involvement .
It is thought that radiation treatment inhibits neovascularization of recipient and / or graft tissues , and this may account in part for abnormalities in wound healing associated with radiation therapy .
Scanning electron microscopy of vascular casts was used to investigate three experimental models of neovascularization .
A lesion was considered subfoveal if it extended underneath the geometric center of the FAZ .
The level of neu expression , as well as the differential expression between P185neu and LAR / PTP1B , directly correlated with tumorigenicity .
Interestingly , in CaSki cells , which were more suggestive of a resistant phenotype , paclitaxel induced the activation of mTOR as a downstream target of Akt .
Transcutaneous measurements of tissue pO2 showed elevation from 20 + / - 10 mm Hg during air breathing to 643 + / - 242 mm Hg while breathing pure oxygen at 2 . 5 ATA .
We have recently found that sodium fluoride ( NaF ) induced apoptotic cell death in tumor cell lines .
Recently , genetic abnormalities in the elements of the Thyrotropin receptor ( TSH - R ) dependent cAMP regulatory cascade have been found to be involved both in benign and malignant thyroid tumours .
We show examples in which p53 gene induction by IFN - alpha / beta contributes to tumour suppression .
This protein is produced in large amounts by fibroblasts cultivated in vitro .
Eighteen patients with SRNV refusing radiotherapy served as a control group and were matched with 18 irradiated patients .
The main objective of the study was to determine the mean visual acuity change .
Here we have demonstrated that mechanical strain - dependent induction of the CCN1 gene involves signaling cascades through RhoA - mediated actin remodeling and the p38 stress - activated protein kinase ( SAPK ) .
Continuous ( 24h ) treatment with 5 microM doxorubicin resulted in cell cycle arrest in G0 / G1 phase that was neither accompanied by phosphorylation and activation of p53 nor enhanced expression of p21 .
All of the DR alpha DNA sequences detected by a cloned DR alpha cDNA probe are contained in a BglII fragment which varies slightly in size ( 4 . 0 to 4 . 8 kilobases ) from one individual to another .
Simultaneously as the growth rate decreased , the cellular uptake of glucose and the density of a class of glucose - reversible binding sites for cytochalasin B on the cell surface were also found to be reduced .
PTEN promoter hypermethylation is a major epigenetic silencing mechanism leading to activation of angiogenesis in tumors .
METHODS : To evaluate antiangiogenic activity of cRGD - HL , we performed tests on endothelial cell adhesion and migration to vitronectin , tube formation , binding affinity to purified alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) integrin , and in vivo Matrigel plug assay .
We verified this finding by Northern blot analysis .
This chapter describes intravital microscopy as a new imaging technique for detecting NO - dependent angiogenesis in an animal model .
RNA encoding glucokinase ( GK ) , the high - Km HK isozyme , was found only in cancer cells originating from liver and pancreas , which express GK under normal conditions .
So we established that these pathways were crucial to endothelial cell proliferation under vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and fibroblast growth factor ( FGF ) stimulation .
RESULTS : Opticin was immunolocalised to the basal cell surface and basement membrane material of the non - pigmented CBE in nine donor eyes as well as four hyperplastic lesions of the CBE ( Fuchs ' s adenoma ) .
Gene transfer of naked DNA encoding for three isoforms of vascular endothelial growth factor stimulates collateral development in vivo .
We have evaluated the effect of thalidomide on VEGF secretion , cell migration , adhesion as well as in capillary formation of human endothelial cell line EA . hy 926 .
The patient received a prescription for 100 mg Ultralan to be taken daily for 3 days and then tapered in 3 day steps .
U . S . A .
In EC9706 cells , the mechanism of aspirin and nimesulide induced growth inhibition was a consequence of cell cycle arrest at the G ( 0 ) / G ( 1 ) check point .
Integrin alphavbeta3 requirement for sustained mitogen - activated protein kinase activity during angiogenesis .
RESULTS : Proteomic findings indicated that adenosine triphosphate synthase alpha chain was up - regulated , whereas annexin II , annexin V , beta ( 2 ) - tubulin , and profilin 1 were down - regulated .
Their relevance in cancer prevention .
Malate - citrate cycle during glycolysis and glutaminolysis in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells .
CONCLUSIONS : Young donor - derived MSCs can improve heart function significantly through angiogenesis and decreasing cardiomyocyte apoptosis when transplanted to the infarcted area .
PURPOSE : The aim of this study was to investigate the use of D2 - 40 for the detection of lymphovascular invasion ( LVI ) in node positive and negative early breast cancer .
The foreign body reaction was similar in both groups .
In this review , the role of TSH - R gene alterations in benign and malignant thyroid neoplasia is examined .
A series of epithelial cell lines and a single fibroblast cell line established in this way were analysed for the presence of transforming genes by DNA transfection into NIH3T3 cells .
Both cell types were found to express Trp1 , but neither expressed Trp3 nor Trp6 .
On the other hand , hypermethylation of CpG islands in the final sigma gene was detected in 91 % ( 75 / 82 ) of breast tumors and was associated with lack of gene expression .
VEGF mRNA expression was also observed in Ve - and OMP - stimulated HGF .
As determined by ELISA and immunoblot assays , ras p21 in the serum increased with increased tumor growth .
The expression of ARD1 was augmented by treatment with synthetic androgen ( R1881 ) unless AR is deficient or is inhibited by AR - specific siRNA or androgen inhibitor bicalutamide ( Casodex ) .
Metabolic regulation by p53 .
In this study , the expression of the cadherin - catenin complex and p53 was studied in early gastric cancer .
A cohort of unspecified mesodermal cells differentiates into primitive endothelial cells , which migrate to and occupy positions within the stereotypical blueprint of the primitive vasculature .
Vasodilator - stimulated phosphoprotein is involved in stress - fiber and membrane ruffle formation in endothelial cells .
As expected , Ang II - induced sFlt - 1 secretion resulted in the inhibition of endothelial cell migration and in vitro tube formation .
Although several methods have been used for measuring in vitro angiogenesis , a proper technique has not been developed for identifying in vivo NO - dependent angiogenesis .
Therefore , we used a targeted mutant mouse model to test the hypothesis that monoallelic deletion of beclin 1 promotes tumorigenesis .
Glycolysis and glutaminolysis in perifused Ehrlich ascites tumour cells .
This transporter was expressed on the cell membrane and in the cytoplasm of the tumor cells , but exhibited marked intratumoral and intertumoral variability in the proportions of positive cells and the intensity of staining .
There was no significant difference of intraoperative blood loss between patients with vitamin K , ( 748 . 27 + / - 448 . 51 ) ml , and those without vitamin K , ( 767 . 31 + / - 547 . 89 ) ml ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
This was associated with a approximately 60 % reduction in tumor - derived blood vessels by quantitative morphometry of CD31 - stained tumor areas , and appearance of endothelial cell apoptosis by internucleosomal DNA fragmentation in vivo .
Like in Apc ( Delta716 ) mice , loss of the wild - type Apc allele was confirmed for all polyps examined in the Apc ( neoR ) and Apc ( neoF ) mice .
BACKGROUND : Endostatin , a C - terminal fragment of collagen XVIII , is an endogenous angiogenesis inhibitor .
Furthermore , Ang II stimulated sFlt - 1 production in a dose - and time - dependent manner from human villous explants and cultured trophoblasts but not from endothelial cells , suggesting that trophoblasts are the primary source of sFlt - 1 during pregnancy .
However , the function of bFGF in parenchymal cells remains to be determined .
However , its role in tumor - associated lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic metastasis remains unclear .
The samples were transferred to Kyushu University Hospital ( Beppu , Japan ) where they were analyzed by quantitative real - time reverse transcription - PCR for three epithelial cell markers , carcinoembryonic antigen , cytokeratin - 19 , and cytokeratin - 7 , as well as VEGFR - 1 .
A reduction in the expression of collagen XII might have profound effects on the stability of the extracellular matrix of transformed cells .
Chicken embryo fibroblasts and hamster BHK cells transformed by Rous sarcoma virus ( RSV ) release in their culture media growth factors which enhance markedly anchorage - independent colony formation in gelified medium , at the restrictive temperature ( 41 degrees 5 C ) , of chicken embryo fibroblasts ( CEF ) infected by RSV mutants with a ts mutation of the src gene .
With a p53 - null cell line ( EU - 4 ) , although doxorubicin treatment arrested cells in G ( 2 ) / M , survivin expression was unchanged , and cells underwent only limited apoptosis .
Hyperfibrinogenemia is associated with lymphatic as well as hematogenous metastasis and worse clinical outcome in T2 gastric cancer .
After incubation for 4 days , the medium from the coculture system is collected .
Ectopic expression of SEMA3B or SEMA3F reduced soft - agar colony formation , adhesion , and cell invasion of ovarian cancer cell cultures .
Southern blotting and probing with PCR - synthesized cDNA fragments of the mouse 72 kDa type IV collagenase gene showed that this gene was present in all cells although the structure of this gene in one of the three LTA cell lines differed from that of the other cells .
Neuroblastoma cells and Chang hepatocytes are then plated separately with the conditioned medium and their own standard growth medium as controls .
A tumor ' s ability to successfully metastasize may be dependent on mediators generated in the tumor - host interaction , and may not be just an independent characteristic of the tumor itself .
Co - treatment with inhibitors of autophagy results in marked enhancement of cell death .
RESULTS : Serum nitrite levels were significantly lower in L - NIL groups ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
Thus , it is highly unlikely that the p53 molecule per se carries intrinsic or even associated kinase activities .
We examined the paired tumour and normal - tissue specimens of 86 CRC patients for the occurrence of aberrations in the mutation cluster region ( MCR ) of the APC gene and exon 3 of the beta - catenin gene by polymerase chain reaction - single - strand conformation polymorphism ( PCR - SSCP ) and / or PCR - direct sequencing .
An evaluation of low molecular weight heparin and hyperbaric oxygen treatment in the prevention of intra - abdominal adhesions and wound healing .
The inhibition of platelet activation with prostaglandin E1 ( PGE ( 1 ) ) attenuated the invasive capacity of SKOV3 cells .
In juvenile brca2 mutants , oocytes failed to progress through meiosis , leading to female - to - male sex reversal .
After 7 days , the pellets from animals fed the control diet were infiltrated by abundant branching networks of blood vessels with patent lumen - containing RBCs .
Lactate - dehydrogenase 5 is overexpressed in non - small cell lung cancer and correlates with the expression of the transketolase - like protein 1 .
All patients received a total dose of 16 Gy in 2 - Gy daily fractions with 5 - 6 MeV photons based on computerized treatment planning in individual head mask fixation .
Upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor receptors is associated with advanced neuroblastoma .
BACKGROUND : A potent angiogenesis inhibitor , U - 995 , has been purified from the cartilage of the blue shark ( Prionace glauca ) .
Adult rat urothelial cells were transformed in vitro following treatment with a single dose of N - methyl - N - nitrosourea ( MNU ) or MNU treatment followed by promotion with sodium saccharin .
Pharmacological inhibition of autophagic flux by chloroquine increased apoptosis and decreased cell viability in hepatoma cells .
Treatment with cyclopamine significantly attenuated vascular formation by a factor of 2 . 5 ( P less than 0 . 001 ) and altered vascular morphology .
We are increasingly aware that cellular metabolism plays a vital role in diseases such as cancer , and that p53 is an important regulator of metabolic pathways .
In this review we will discuss the mechanism of action , as well as the preclinical and clinical results , of one of the most promising antitubulin agents : the combretastatin A4 - phosphate derivative , AVE8062A .
Many cellular and biochemical effects of curcumin in mouse fibroblast cells have been reported , such as inhibition of protein kinase C ( PKC ) activity induced by phorbol 12 - myristate 13 - acetate treatment , inhibition of tyrosine protein kinase activity , and inhibition of arachidonic acid ( AA ) metabolism .
The present studies examine whether lymphocyte stimulation via cells engineered to secrete GM - CSF or IL - 2 decreases hepatic tumor growth , and whether stimulation of both macrophages and lymphocytes is more effective than either individually .
LeTx also substantially inhibited the extracellular release of angioproliferative factors including vascular endothelial growth factor , interleukin - 8 , and basic fibroblast growth factor .
Accordingly , the therapeutic potential of curcumin for breast cancer deserves further study .
For the purpose of investigating the relationship between the metastatic potential of the tumor as well as the expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA , and for determing the location of the positive sites in the cells , tumor metastasis suppressor gene nm23 - H1 in human hepatocellular carcinoma ( and the nonneoplastic area surrounding the tumor ) was detected by in situ hybridization using digoxiginin - labeled nm23 - H1 antisense complementary RNA probe .
The results demonstrate the possibility to generate monospecific divalent and tetravalent antibodies , immunocytokines , and dual specificity tetravalent antibodies .
Further , the inhibition of EGF binding by tumor promoters following long - term treatment of Swiss 3T3 cells with PDBu also varied with growth state .
Through morphological and biochemical analyses , it was demonstrated that NCI - H1299 cells treated with BV exhibit several features of apoptosis .
Induction of the leukemogenic phenotype is generally associated with inappropriate expression of this transcriptional regulator .
One such factor , vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , is considered to exert a potent angiogenic activity , as indicated by immunohistochemical and molecular evidence .
The special attention is focused on the ambiguity of the neutrophil role in oncogenesis .
The A431 cells exhibited typical in vitro cell adhesion to the endothelial F - 2 cells .
1 , 4 - phenylenebis ( methylene ) selenocyanate , but not selenomethionine , inhibits androgen receptor and Akt signaling in human prostate cancer cells .
Immunohistochemical staining for thyroid transcription factor - 1 : a helpful aid in discerning primary site of tumor origin in patients with brain metastases .
Invasion assay and migration assay showed that the invasion and migration of CNE1 - GL cell were higher than those of CNE1 cells ( P < 0 . 01 ) .
The tumors of A431 supplemented with F - 2 cells were profoundly vascularized throughout by the tubular structures formed by F - 2 cells , the lumen of which contained the host rat blood cells .
It was the aim of this study to compare the value of measurement of glucose metabolism with that of measurement of 123I - IMT uptake for the non - invasive grading of brain tumours .
The extracellular matrix ( ECM ) directs all phases of healing following trauma or disease and is therefore a natural source of prosthetic mesh material that can be used strategically to induce the repair and restoration of soft tissues following surgery .
These results suggest that the role of WT1 is different depending on the type of leukemia cell in which it is expressed .
BX471 ( R - N - [ 5 - chloro - 2 - [ 2 - [ 4 ( 4 - fluorophenyl ) methyl ] - 2 - methyl - 1 - piperazinyl ] - 2 - oxoethoxy ] phenyl ] urea hydrochloric acid salt ) , a CCR1 antagonist , inhibits angiogenic properties of CCL16 , whereas blocking of CCR8 or desensitizing CCR2 , which are both well known receptors for CCL16 , did not abolish endothelial activation .
Role of osteopontin in adhesion , migration , cell survival and bone remodeling .
The expression of HMGA2 modulates the expression of hTERT , resulting in cells with enhanced telomerase activities and increased telomere length .
The angiogenic switch during tumorigenesis is thought to be induced by a change in the balance of pro - angiogenic and anti - angiogenic factors .
Staining was effected by the standard avidin - biotin horseradish peroxidase system .
We show that ING4 physically interacts with p65 ( RelA ) subunit of nuclear factor NF - kappaB , and that ING4 regulates brain tumour angiogenesis through transcriptional repression of NF - kappaB - responsive genes .
alpha - MSH also induces activation of NF - kappa B but does not modulate DNA binding on costimulation with IL - 1 beta .
Two small RNAs ( 0 . 9 and 0 . 75 kb ) , named Marek ' s disease virus ( MDV ) small RNAs ( MSRs ) and a 10 - kb RNA , all of which map antisense to the MDV ICP4 homolog gene , have been readily detected in MDCC - MSB1 MDV - transformed T - lymphoblastoid cells .
These studies thus identify p600 as a shared target of the E7 proteins of multiple papillomaviruses .
Induced over - and under - expression of these genes has been used to demonstrate their affect on some aspects of hematopoiesis and leukemogenesis .
AVE8062 : a new combretastatin derivative vascular disrupting agent .
Our data indicates that this therapeutic approach markedly promotes angiogenesis and granulation tissue formation in comparison with other conditions 14 days after wounding .
These data highlight the importance of a balanced proteolysis and suggest an additional role for PAI - 1 distinct from its role in proteolysis .
Infiltration of dendritic cells correlated negatively with distant lymph node metastases , clinical stage , and peritoneal invasion .
We showed that the ANG II - induced stimulation of angiogenesis is linked to the AT2 receptor as an impaired induction of angiogenesis was obtained in AT2 receptor knockout mice .
Clusterin gene expression is potently induced in experimental models in which apoptosis is activated , such as rat prostate involution following castration .
The vascular insulin - like growth factor ( IGF ) - 1 system includes the IGFs , the IGF - 1 receptor ( IGF - 1R ) , and multiple binding proteins .
The effects on hemostasis of DM - COOK , DTIC and ICRF - 159 have thus been examined in comparison with those of a purely cytotoxic agent , cyclophosphamide , in mice bearing i . m .
RESULTS : We demonstrated that cisplatin provoked a time - and dose - dependent decrease of HUVEC migration ; this effect was clearly independent from its well known cytotoxic activity .
The pathophysiology involves inflammation and angiogenesis .
These results suggest that point mutations in p53 and ras are not associated with pituitary tumorigenesis , however , point mutations of the H - ras gene may be important in the formation and or growth of pituitary metastases .
Very little is yet known about the precise relationship of p53 to malignant transformation .
Multikinase inhibitor sorafenib inhibits proliferation and angiogenesis of tumors by suppressing the Raf / MEK / ERK signaling pathway and VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase .
We propose that this novel , central metabolic role is at the core of the addiction for STAT3 shown by so many biologically different tumours .
Hepatocyte growth factor ( HGF ) / c - Met signaling is thought to be a key pathway in both melanocyte development and melanoma metastasis .
Curcumin also significantly decreased ( P < 0 . 05 ) the expression of uPA and NF - kappaB DNA binding activity , respectively .
PP also resulted in less connective tissue formation and foreign - body reaction than PF and PS prostheses .
Treatment with the antiangiogenic reagent TNP - 470 suppressed postoperative progression of pulmonary metastasis .
It is now known that specific types of human papillomaviruses ( HPV ) are the principal etiologic agents for both cervical cancer and its precursors .
PURPOSE : To evaluate alterations in the retinal vasculature overlying pigment epithelial detachments ( PED ) in exudative age - related macular degeneration ( ARMD ) using indocyanine green and fluorescein angiography .
Hematogenous metastasis in gastric cancer requires isolated tumor cells and expression of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 1 .
RESULTS : The maximum tolerated dose of galectin - 3C in nude mice was determined to be > 125 mg / kg without overt adverse effects .
Furthermore , we found that the potentiating effect of miR - BHRF1 - 2 on miR - BHRF1 - 3 synthesis can be reproduced with simple expression plasmids , provided that both miRNAs are processed from the same transcript .
Angiogenic activity of the aqueous humor was quantified by measuring its effect on the migration of capillary endothelial cells .
Prostate - specific membrane antigen regulates angiogenesis by modulating integrin signal transduction .
This suggests that FOXO3a may play a role in LAC suppression by eliciting a protective response to carcinogenic stress .
Topo I expression now needs to be evaluated in patients undergoing topo I - inhibitor therapy , to better define the role of this protein as a predictive marker .
These data thus indicate that the effects on hemostasis of the drugs examined can contribute only marginally to their antimetastatic action , since more pronounced effects on hemostasis have been shown to be required to significantly affect metastasis formation .
Rofecoxib was used for eight acute haemarthrosis , four target joints , seven cases of synovitis and 12 episodes of pain .
Indeed , adjuvant tamoxifen significantly prolonged DFS and OAS in c - erbB2 - negative cases , whereas it had no effect on DFS and OAS in c - erbB2 - positive patients .
Differential mechanisms of radiosensitization by 2 - deoxy - D - glucose in the monolayers and multicellular spheroids of a human glioma cell line .
Expression was evaluated in normal breast tissue and carcinoma , nuclei and cytoplasm , as intensity ( 0 to 3 + ) , and percentage of positive cells .
Store - operated calcium entry promotes shape change in pulmonary endothelial cells expressing Trp1 .
The greatest potential for angiogenesis inhibitors may lie in their ability to combine safely with chemotherapy and radiotherapy .
To elucidate the biological role of the endogenous angiogenesis inhibitor thrombospondin - 2 ( TSP - 2 ) during multistep carcinogenesis , we subjected TSP - 2 - deficient and wild - type mice to a chemical skin carcinogenesis regimen .
Apoptotic signaling by p75 was ligand - independent and only partly caspase - dependent .
CD154 , but not CD40 expression , significantly correlated with tumor stage .
[ Ambiguity role of neutrophils in oncogenesis ]
High - risk human papillomaviruses ( HPVs ) are associated with carcinomas of the cervix and other genital tumors .
One option is to reduce the G - CSF dosage as much as possible , and observe the tempo of progression , if any , to more overt signs of malignancy .
Drug delivery to solid tumors is one of the most challenging aspects in cancer therapy .
Angiogenesis , a multi - step process which involves endothelial cell proliferation , adhesion , migration , and basement membrane ( BM ) degradation , is essential for tumor metastasis .
Whether more differentiated cells may also be transformed by particular oncogenes is actively debated ; it is presently unclear whether stem cells or differentiated mammary cells are more susceptible to transformation by individual oncogenes .
All courses were evaluated for safety and 31 for efficacy .
Furthermore , we showed that glycogen was depleted in a low glucose medium , but conserved under hypoxic conditions .
This may explain why some patients remain without symptoms or signs of ischemia .
We previously showed that disruption of TGF - beta signaling by dominant - negative TGF - beta type II receptor in a diffuse - type gastric carcinoma model accelerated tumor growth through induction of tumor angiogenesis by decreased expression of the anti - angiogenic factor thrombospondin ( TSP ) - 1 .
Macrophages can be activated in a classical or alternative manner in parallel with the T ( H ) 1 / T ( H ) 2 dichotomy , respectively .
TRADD domain of Epstein - Barr virus transforming protein LMP1 is essential for inducing immortalization and suppressing senescence of primary rodent fibroblasts .
The semaphorin 7A receptor Plexin C1 is lost during melanoma metastasis .
DESIGN : Differentially expressed proteins discovered between the two cell lines were identified by mass spectrometry .
Angiogenesis is a fundamental process to normal and abnormal tissue growth and repair , which consists of recruiting endothelial cells toward an angiogenic stimulus .
The effects on aerobic glucose consumption , lactic acid formation , content of total ( T - SH ) and non - protein thiol groups ( NP - SH ) , endogenous and exogenous respiration and the level of ATP in tumour cells incubated in vitro were investigated .
Dll4 is one of the Notch ligands that regulates arterial specification and maturation events .
Recent studies have shown that E - cadherin has an important role as an invasion suppressor molecule in epithelial tumor cells .
At the time of brain biopsy , the primary site of tumor origin was known in 45 cases and unknown in 30 cases .
The authors evaluated the association between MDM2 expression and local failure , distant metastasis ( DM ) , cause - specific mortality , and overall mortality in men treated in Radiation Therapy Oncology Group 8610 with radiotherapy , with or without androgen deprivation .
In a subset of neuroblastomas , a spontaneous neuronal to neuroendocrine differentiation occurs in areas adjacent to necrotic zones .
In the 380 patients who were ITC negative and showed low VEGFR - 1 expression , synchronous ( at the time of surgery ) and heterochronous ( recurrent ) metastases were not observed .
Here , we demonstrate that aglycon of rhizochalin ( AglRhz ) from the Rhizochalina incrustata induces AMP - activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) phosphorylation , and thereby inhibits mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) - p70S6 kinase - extracellular signal - regulated kinase ( ERK ) signaling and activator protein 1 ( AP - 1 ) activity via phosphorylation of Raptor in HT - 29 cells .
Collagen XII is a complex multidomain protein associated with the surface of interstitial collagen fibrils .
In cervical cancer cells , paclitaxel induced apoptosis through an intrinsic pathway with prior G2 / M arrest .
CONCLUSION : Calretinin is a very useful marker for positive identification of normal and tumor mesothelial cells in serous effusions .
Treatment with suberoylanilide hydroxamide ( SAHA ) , a histone deacetylase ( HDAC ) inhibitor , causes dose - dependent hTERT reporter activation , mimicking HMGA2 overexpression .
Expression of AQP5 was associated with cellular differentiation , lymph node invasion , and clinicopathological staging .
BACKGROUND : The effects of a rectified semi - sinewave signal ( 15 mT amplitude , 120 pulses per second , EMF Therapeutics , Inc . ) ( TEMF ) alone and in combination with gamma irradiation ( IR ) therapy in nude mice bearing a human MDA MB231 breast cancer xenograft were tested .
Based on this observation , we generated the first transgenic mouse model with a targeted overexpression of Tsg101 in the developing mammary gland to test whether exogenous Tsg101 is capable of initiating tumorigenesis .
Our results suggest that EPOX is a novel antiangiogenic agent , making it a promising lead compound for further development in the treatment of angiogenesis - related pathologies .
CONCLUSION : TEMF therapy provided a safe means for retarding tumor vascularization , growth and metastasis .
Our results suggest that formation of a ternary complex of VEGF165 , KDR , and NRP1 potentiates VEGF165 binding to KDR .
Here we show that heterozygous disruption of beclin 1 increases the frequency of spontaneous malignancies and accelerates the development of hepatitis B virus - induced premalignant lesions .
A univariate analysis of survival showed that vascular grade was the most significant prognostic factor ( P = 0 . 0004 ) , followed by N - stage ( P = 0 . 001 ) .
The following review describes key molecular mechanisms and novel therapies that are on the horizon for antiangiogenic tumor therapy .
In most cases treatment was associated with decreased vascular leakage , stabilization , or improved vision .
S - 100beta is also an independent prognostic marker .
PLAG1 overexpression in salivary glands has previously been shown to result in salivary gland tumors in 100 % of mice within 5 weeks after birth .
There is more and more information on the role of ARF in the regulation of a cell cycle , apoptosis , and autophagy .
Our data demonstrate , for the first time , that IGF1 - R / Akt / Bcl - x ( L ) pathway may contribute to a more aggressive malignant phenotype , in a subset of colorectal cancers .
A positive correlation between blood vessel volume and bone volume density was found in the younger new - bone area but not in the oldest new - bone area .
Statistically significant differences were observed regarding angiogenesis between the control group and groups 3 and 4 .
HIFs are also expressed during normal development ; for example , HIF - 2alpha is specifically expressed and appears to be involved in the development of the murine sympathetic nervous system ( SNS ) .
It activated multicaspases , and increased the activities of caspase - 8 and caspase - 9 in both MG - 63 and SaOS - 2 cells .
The loss of one allele of the p53 gene ( located on chromosome 17p13 ) occurred in at least 6 ( 60 % ) of the 10 patients who were heterozygous at the p53 locus .
In addition , we found down - regulation of cyclin B , cyclin E , and dephosphorylation of cdk2 in ciprofloxacin - treated bladder tumor cells .
The authors show that resection of the primary osteosarcoma tumor enhances progression of pulmonary metastasis in animal osteosarcoma models .
Overexpression of NRP1 by prostate tumor cells in vivo results in increased tumor angiogenesis and growth .
Bicistronic retroviral vector reveals capacity of v - erbA to induce erythroleukemia and to co - operate with v - myb .
It was correlated with the laboratory ( Hb , WBC and platelet counts , and the percentage of blasts ) and clinical parameters ( organomegaly , duration of CP , AP , and BC ) of disease progression .
Furthermore , rat mammary carcinomas with elevated neu expression ( neu - induced ) also had sharply elevated LAR - PTPase expression when compared to rat mammary carcinomas with little or no neu expression ( 7 , 12 - dimethylbenzanthracene induced ) ; the level of expression of LAR PTPase was directly correlated with the level of neu expression .
The percentage of cell apoptosis increased with the enhancing of concentration .
Verteporfin has a high affinity for choroidal neovascular membranes , typically found with exudative AMD , and upon photoactivation results in targeted microvascular damage and thrombus formation with resultant vessel occlusion .
Relationship between of blood flow , glucose metabolism , protein synthesis , glucose and ATP content in experimentally - induced glioma ( RG1 2 . 2 ) of rat brain .
These results suggest that alterations of the microsatellite regions in the TGF - beta RII gene are not involved in the progression of CML .
After MNNG administration , rats were investigated by endoscopic observation , visualization of microvascular structure , and estimation of lectin binding sites .
CONCLUSION : Our observations suggest that DCC / netrin - 1 signaling may commit cells to the transition of endometrial gland architecture or function from a proliferating to a secretory phase .
These findings suggest that poorly vascularized neuroblastomas become immature and maintain a more aggressive phenotype , which possibly could involve a sustained stabilization and activation of HIF - 2alpha .
No effective medical therapies have been developed sofar to enhance blood flow in the legs of patients with peripheral arterial disease ( PAD ) .
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES : Aquaporins ( AQPs ) play important roles in water and glycerol transport .
High HER2 expression in specimens was additionally investigated by fluorescence in situ hybridization .
METHOD : Wild - type and phosphatase - inactive ( C124A ) PTEN plasmids were transfected into ovarian epithelial cancer A2780 cells , and their effects on cell apoptosis , cell proliferation , cell migration and cell invasion were analyzed by flow cytometry analysis , TUNEL assay , MTT assay , wound - healing assay and transwell assay .
The present findings indicate that vandetanib therapy effectively counteracted the aggressive feature of tumor growth resulting from VEGF over - expressing tumor cells and suggest that such tumors may be particularly well suited for anti - VEGF interventions .
Twenty mature male New Zealand white rabbits ( 3 kg weight ) were employed to evaluate the effects of two empirically selected stimulation paradigms applied continuously for 7 - 21 days , using each animal as its own control .
Surprisingly , TSP - 2 expression was strongly upregulated in the mesenchymal stroma of wild - type mice throughout the consecutive stages of tumorigenesis whereas the angiogenesis factor , vascular endothelial growth factor , was induced predominantly in tumor cells .
Although both hypomorphic heterozygotes developed intestinal polyps , tumor multiplicities were much lower than that in Apc ( Delta716 ) mice , heterozygotes of an Apc null allele .
Both cis - 9 , trans - 11 and trans - 10 , cis - 12 CLA isomers were effective in inhibiting angiogenesis in vitro in a dose - dependent fashion .
Here we show that recombinant human prothrombin kringle - 2 ( rk - 2 ) inhibited bovine capillary endothelial cell migration with an IC ( 50 ) ( concentration for half maximal inhibition ) of 38 nM and inhibited adhesion to extracellular matrix ( ECM ) proteins .
BACKGROUND : The aim of this study was to investigate not only the intratumoral and peritumoral lymphatic vessel density ( ILD and PLD ) but also the expression of vascular endothelial growth factors ( VEGFs ) and to test their correlation with regional lymph nodal metastases in papillary thyroid microcarcinoma ( PTMC ) .
Transforming growth factor - beta1 enhances tumour vascularization and microvessel maturation .
These findings suggest that targeting beta ( 2 ) M or MHC class I by using antibodies or other agents offers a potential therapeutic approach for beta ( 2 ) M / MHC class I - expressing malignancies .
At protein level , VEGF - B and C , Flt - 1 , and KDR were not detectable in tissue lysates , whereas VEGF - A was increased in stages III and IV .
Here we show that exponentially growing NIH 3T3 fibroblasts recently transformed by Ha - ras or Ki - ras possess elevated DG concentrations without significant alterations in the levels of other polyphosphoinositide metabolites .
Osteonectin transcript and metastatic behavior in v - Ki - ras transformed fibroblasts .
Use of uteroglobin for the engineering of polyvalent , polyspecific fusion proteins .
A transcript from the long terminal repeats of a murine retrovirus associated with trans activation of cellular genes .
Five patients are still responding to therapy .
VEGFR1 - positive haematopoietic bone marrow progenitors initiate the pre - metastatic niche .
From 35 to 100 % of the whole amount of ATP resynthesized via glycolysis is utilized for transport purposes .
Relationship of p53 and Helicobacter pylori to clinicopathological features of human remnant stomach cancer after gastric surgery for primary gastric cancer .
In conclusion , p53 and VEGF were not correlated with prognosis in patients with stage II and III SCC of the esophagus .
Osteoclast - like cells and tartarate resistant acid phosphatase ( TRAP ) activities were then quantitated .
This was confirmed with chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments of the human c - Met promoter , as well as by the ability of adenovirally expressed Mitf to modulate endogenous c - Met protein levels in melanocytes .
Differences in polyphosphoinositide metabolism have been reported for ras - transformed cells .
Excessive vascular development and blood vessel remodeling appears in psoriasis , rheumatoid arthritis , diabetic retinopathy and solid tumors formation .
Distinct role of PLCbeta3 in VEGF - mediated directional migration and vascular sprouting .
CONCLUSIONS : PLD may be of potential benefit in the prediction of neck metastasis in PTMC .
N - myc has proapoptotic functions , yet it acts as an oncogene in neuroblastoma .
Bone marrow - derived mesenchymal stem cells ( BM - MSC ) have been demonstrated to be an attractive therapeutic cell source for tissue regeneration and repair .
Correlation with clinico - pathological factors including LVI as retrieved by routine haematoxylin and eosin ( H . E . ) stained sections and the eligibility for the prediction of ALNM was assessed .
The volume density of blood vessels between the two investigated areas was significantly lower in the 1 mm / day groups , suggesting a delay in angiogenesis in this group of patients .
Human thyroid tumours represent an example of the interplay of genetic and non genetic carcinogenesis .
Differential expression and mutation of NME genes in autologous cultured human melanoma cells with different metastatic potentials .
beta - catenin signaling controls metastasis in Braf - activated Pten - deficient melanomas .
Additionally , cediranib blocked VEGF - C156S - induced and VEGF - E - induced proliferation , survival , and migration of lymphatic and blood vascular endothelial cells .
Loss of tumor suppressor proteins , which function as brakes on cell growth , migration , or cell survival , was recognized early on as an important mechanism for initiation and progression of melanoma .
IMPLICATIONS : Short - course cytotoxic chemotherapy after surgery has probably reached its zenith , and other strategies , perhaps antiangiogenic methods , are needed to successfully treat more patients .
This primitive vascular network is extensively remodeled in some places , and expanded by sprouting in others .
Under conditions mimicking the injection environment , the lipoplex - serum interaction was strongly dependent on helper lipid and ionic strength : lipoplexes prepared in 150 mM NaCl or lipoplexes with high ( greater than 33 mol % ) cholesterol were found to aggregate immediately .
The apoptosis induced by Sim is probably initiated by the mitochondrial caspase 9 , which indirectly leads to activation of caspase 3 and 8 .
Key players in this process are the hypoxia - inducible factors ( HIF - 1alpha to 3alpha ) .
Stimulation of endothelial cell migration by vascular permeability factor / vascular endothelial growth factor through cooperative mechanisms involving the alphavbeta3 integrin , osteopontin , and thrombin .
Addition of c - erbB2 to a multivariate Cox model that contained menopausal status , tumor size , nuclear grade , and treatment as covariates did not affect the significance of the model for DSF or OAS , whereas addition of the first - order interaction between c - erbB2 and tamoxifen was statistically significant both for DFS and OAS .
Several possible explanations for the relationship of these changes to the enhancement of DMBA carcinogenesis include : radiation blocking normal capillary proliferative and / or dilatory responses to inflammation secondary to neoplastic changes ; radiation - induced focal increases in the pericapillary connective tissue histohematic barrier , stimulating angiogenesis but reducing nutrient diffusion ; radiation exposures sensitizing vascular endothelium to subsequent angiogenic stimulation from premalignant tissues ; DMBA vascular and epithelial effects partially or completely blocking radiation effects on epithelial and / or endothelial cells ; and radiation damage to vessel walls partially or fully inhibiting normal physiologic mechanisms of repairing DMBA damage to the vessels .
These findings provide the first evidence that the AT2 receptor mediates a stimulation of in vivo angiogenesis and indicate that ANG II is a humoral regulator of peripheral angiogenesis involving two receptor subtypes with opposing actions .
Therefore , we speculated that Ang II may promote the expression of sFlt - 1 in pregnancy .
Comparison of transformation by manganese sulfate and 5 - azacytidine in Rat 6 cells overexpressing the c - myc oncogene .
It has been suggested that the expression of this protein may be of prognostic significance in gastric , colorectal , and bladder carcinomas .
RESULTS : Mean ( + / - SEM ) graft survival was significantly prolonged in animals receiving spironolactone ( 14 . 9 + / - 2 . 0 days ) compared with both PBS - treated ( 12 . 3 + / - 1 . 2 days , p = 0 . 007 ) and untreated controls ( 13 . 0 + / - 1 . 0 days , p = 0 . 01 ) .
Our results show CWR22Rv - 1 and PC3 tumor cell lines to be more metastatic than LAPC - 4 , which in turn disseminates more readily than LAPC - 9 .
Promoter binding assay was performed by chromatin immunoprecipitation ( ChIP ) assay .
Rab GTPase regulation of VEGFR2 trafficking and signaling in endothelial cells .
In summary , these results suggest that ADAM - 9 expression plays an important role in mediating cell - cell contacts between fibroblasts and melanoma cells and that these interactions contribute to proteolytic activities required during invasion of melanoma cells .
There is accumulating evidence of a role for IGF - 1 in multiple vascular pathologies , including atherosclerosis , hypertension , restenosis , angiogenesis , and diabetic vascular disease .
Our results suggest that blood flow limits glucose supply to tumor tissue at much higher flow rates than in normal brain which , in turn , is associated with a decrease in tumor glucose utilization .
Fibroblasts of the host animal may thus have an important role in generating enhanced metastatic activity of H - 3 cells .
Our results confirm a close link between the two metabolic enzymes and indicate an alteration in the glucose metabolism in the process of malignant transformation .
The tumors were also serially transplantable into other mice .
Inhibition of angiogenesis by the cancer chemopreventive agent conjugated linoleic acid .
Directed EC migration is a central step in this process and depends on cellular signaling cascades that initiate and control the structural rearrangements .
It was suggested that UFT has a stronger angiogenesis - inhibitory effect than did other fluorinated pyrimidines , partly due to its pharmacokinetic properties characterized by maintaining of higher and long - lasting blood levels of 5 - FU and partly due the inhibitory effects derived from gamma - hydroxybutyric acid and gamma - butyrolactone , UFT - specific metabolites .
However , most current anti - VEGF agents often cause some side effects when given chronically .
BACKGROUND : The Ras association domain family 1 ( RASSF1 ) gene is a Ras effector encoding two major mRNA forms , RASSF1A and RASSF1C , derived by alternative promoter selection and alternative mRNA splicing .
Expanded polytetrafluoroethylene ( PTFE ) sheets were implanted adjacent to both superficial epigastric vascular pedicles of 63 rats distributed into 7 groups ( n = 7 ) that differed with respect to dose and timing of irradiation .
This decrease persisted for the remaining 2 weeks of treatment .
One theoretical possibility is that mast cells may prepare the matrix , perhaps by slow release of heparin , so that capillary sprouts can more easily move through it toward their angiogenic target .
An immediate decrease in corneal clouding was observed in groups treated with additional low - or high - dose prednisolone from day 9 after inoculation .
Estradiol increases IL - 8 secretion of normal human breast tissue and breast cancer in vivo .
Reactive astrocytic processes and phagocytic cells are also present in the grafts .
Our results indicate that HCMV elevates cellular p53 levels on the order of 10 - to 20 - fold in infected fibroblasts .
Only a subset of patients is suitable for laser coagulation .
Evi - 1 associates with CtBP1 through one of the CtBP - binding consensus motifs within the region from amino acid 544 to 607 , and this association is required for the efficient inhibition of TGF - beta signaling .
Importantly , Bax and Bak were rapidly translocated to the mitochondria 30 min after betulin treatment .
Quercetin increased the efficiency of pumping in EAT cells both in the absence and presence of the detergent .
Subcutaneous implantation of bFGF loaded PLGA - heparin microspheres in mice significantly induced the formation of new vascular microvessels .
The degree of corneal infiltration , ulceration , corneal clouding , hypopyon , conjunctivitis , neovascularization , and corneal perforation was monitored over a 24 - day period , as well as recultivation and resistance to fluconazole of the C . albicans pathogen .
Another interesting cell type is the endothelial progenitor cell ( EPC ) , whose numbers increase in the presence of vascular damage .
Nontumorigenic , immortalized keratinocytes cell line ( 3PC ) , papilloma ( MT1 / 2 ) , and squamous cell carcinoma ( Ca3 / 7 ) cell lines were initially used to study the cell growth inhibition by DMI .
Metronomic chemotherapy ( the frequent , long term , low dose administration of chemotherapeutic drugs ) is a promising therapy because it enhances the anti - endothelial activity of conventional chemotherapeutics , but with lower or no toxic effects compared to maximum tolerated dose administration .
The NBD peptide suppressed metastasis and tongue tumor growth in GSAS / N5 - inoculated mice , and was accompanied by the downregulation of the NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules in engrafted tongue tumors .
An understanding of the relative contribution of various pathways in the development of tumor vasculature is critical for developing effective and selective therapeutic approaches .
cDNA microarray expression analysis showed that the mouse homologue of Dss1 is induced by TPA .
Abnormal beta - catenin expression was associated significantly with positive 14 - 3 - 3zeta expression .
Our data align osteonectin with other matrix - components and adhesion molecules in affecting potential metastatic spreading of transformed cells .
Analysis of the stability of HAH - cortisol showed that it was stable at pH 7 . 4 and broke down rapidly ( t1 / 2 15 min ) at pH 4 . 8 at 37 degrees C .
These results suggest a novel treatment for RDEB , namely , angiogenesis inhibitors , which may antagonize the effects of bFGF in this disorder .
Heat shock protein 27 ( HSP27 ) is one of the small heat shock proteins .
Thus the results obtained by 31P and 13C MRS correlated with the differentiation state of H4 and H5 spheroids and tumors .
Characterization of the metabolic changes underlying growth factor angiogenic activation : identification of new potential therapeutic targets .
The corresponding transcripts in KE and A - 1235 cells contain 1053 additional nucleotides representing an in - frame duplication of exons 18 through 25 which encode the entire TK region and a portion of the CAIN domain .
Having identified the nucleolar localisation sequence in BAG - 1L , we showed that mutation of this sequence did not prevent BAG - 1L from potentiating VDR activity .
However , the exact mechanism underlying the cytotoxic effects of pacitaxel , especially in the survival - signalling pathway , is poorly understood .
Further deletions reveal a sequence within the carboxy - terminal domain that is responsible for in vivo bundle formation .
Surprisingly , functional p53 was retained in vivo , even after transplantation , whereas explanted tumor cells displayed rapid allele loss in vitro .
CONCLUSIONS : PE is a useful prognostic predictor of CR and OS for AML / MDS patients .
Another marker being investigated in the context of vascular dysfunction and coagulopathy is the endothelial microparticle ( EMP ) .
HT - 29 human colorectal cancer xenograft model was used and tumour growth , microvessel density and VEGF quantification were performed in tumours after the administration of metronomic CPT - 11 , L - OHP , 5 - FU and their simultaneous combination .
The contribution of Harold F . Dvorak to the study of tumor angiogenesis and stroma generation mechanisms .
They are important components of the growth regulatory pathways in normal cells .
Better stem cell and progenitor cell markers as well as the ability to specifically target oncogenes into different mammary cell types will be needed to determine the spectrum of oncogene transformation for stem cells versus more differentiated cells .
Altogether , these results suggest that the glycolytic pathway may be an important target for therapeutic intervention to sensitize tumor cells to selectively toxic soluble death ligands or death ligand - expressing cells of the immune system by facilitating the activation of initiator caspase - 8 .
Four weeks after cell transplantation , reverse transcriptase - polymerase chain reaction ( RT - PCR ) and immunohistochemistry for vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , VIII - factor immunohistochemistry for vessel density , TUNEL , caspase - 3 for cardiomyocyte apoptosis , echocardiography and hemodynamic detection for heart function were performed .
METHODS : Standard therapy with primary resection followed by adjuvant chemotherapy and radiation had failed in all patients .
These sinusoids had a great deal of surface area for potential contact with the fetal component .
3H - Cytosine arabinoside incorporation into the DNA was enhanced 1 . 33 - to 18 . 3 - fold over respective controls in 14 of 17 patients .
Swainsonine caused a great distortion to the vasculature at 18 weeks .
In 17 rabbits , a 2 - cm strip of latissimus dorsi was woven into the parascapular fat pad on one side , with the contralateral fat pad serving as a control .
However , the mechanism of action and the efficiency in inducing apoptosis of these two proteins are not similar .
The response to taxol and heparin - steroid was similar to that of the HPVAM , a validated angiogenesis assay .
The threshold level of adenomatous polyposis coli protein for mouse intestinal tumorigenesis .
Such activity was abolished in mechanically stimulated mouse MRTF - A ( - / - ) cells or upon inhibition of CREB - binding protein ( CBP ) histone acetyltransferase ( HAT ) either pharmacologically or by siRNAs .
In this review , we outline the known mechanisms that impair p53 itself and its immediate regulators or target genes during melanomagenesis .
Aberrant angiogenesis is often associated with lesion formation in chronic periodontitis .
These two transcription factors also play an important role in fibroblasts , in extracellular matrix composition , and in cytokine expression .
One of the clones ( clone 1510 ) contained the gene encoding latent membrane protein ( LMP ) .
Three weeks after injection , blood perfusion and capillary density were significantly higher in the FM - MSC and BM - MSC groups than in the phosphate - buffered saline group , and allogeneic FM - MSC and BM - MSC were still observed .
[ 13C ] Lactate production from [ 13C ] glucose , with no detectable uptake of [ 13C ] alanine , indicated that energy production in H5 spheroids was primarily via glycolysis .
The difference in diagnostic performance was not significant on receiver operating characteristic analysis ( P > 0 . 4 ) .
DNA of the non - tumorigenic cell hybrids transformed Rat - 1 cells to anchorage - independent proliferation as expected for the transforming human Ha - ras gene present in the donor DNA .
In this review article , many functions of homeobox genes both at the early stem cell level as well as at the later stages of hematopoietic differentiation , and the leukemogenic effect of altered homeobox genes are discussed .
Survivin is a novel member of the inhibitor of apoptosis protein ( IAP ) family .
The cyclin - dependent kinase inhibitor p21WAF1 level was found to be decreased within 12 h of ciprofloxacin treatment and disappeared completely when HTB9 cells were treated with 200 microg / ml ciprofloxacin for 24 h .
However , high expression of WT1 correlates with poor prognosis in acute leukemia .
Although the increase in p53 levels could be a secondary by - product of the transformed state , it is equally possible that p53 is actively involved in altering cellular growth properties , especially as it has been implicated in the regulation of normal cell proliferation .
Therefore , our results indicate that emodin inhibits HER - 2 / neu tyrosine kinase activity and preferentially suppresses growth and induces differentiation of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing cancer cells .
We found a significant positive correlation between IL - 8 and estradiol in normal breast tissue and hormone - dependent breast cancer in vivo .
Although antibodies to PAI - 1 did not affect the adhesion of HT1080 cells to vitronectin , the antibody to uPA reduced their attachment .
VEGF gene expression and capillary density in the old donor - derived group were lower than those in the young donor - derived group but higher than those in the control group ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
Although the Bcl - 2 and Bax levels were significantly higher in spheroids , Bcl - 2 / Bax ratio was similar in monolayers and spheroids .
Taken together , this study indicates that GSE is a well - tolerated and inexpensive natural VEGF inhibitor and could potentially be useful in cancer prevention or treatment .
Controlled neo - endothelialisation is critical to the patency of small diameter vascular grafts .
Compared with BM - MSC , FM - MSC secreted a comparable amount of hepatocyte growth factor despite a small amount of vascular endothelial growth factor .
Then , we demonstrated a mitochondrial membrane potential disruption followed by cytochrome c release that indicates the involvement of mitochondria in this apoptotic signaling pathway .
The paper reviews the data available in the literature on a role of the tumor suppressor ARF in oncogenesis and considers the structure of a gene encoding ARF protein .
One mechanism by which alpha - MSH exerts its effects is modulation of AP - 1 and NF - kappa B .
Now , by competition experiments with a panel of different unlabelled cells we show that the VCSA expressed on RSV - transformed hamster fibroblasts is a complex of at least three distinct antigenic specificities : ( 1 ) one expressed on all RSV - transformed fibroblasts , regardless their species and the subgroup or strain of the transforming virus ; ( 2 ) one cross - reacting with a cell - surface antigen ( CSA ) expressed at various degrees on untransformed avian fibroblasts , but not on mammalian fibroblasts ; ( 3 ) one species - specific , present only on RSV - transformed hamster fibroblasts .
The rabbits were sacrificed and the specimens were procured at 3 days , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 and 6 weeks after surgery for histological observation , Chinese ink perfusion and CD34 immunohistochemistry .
Furthermore , we show that VEGF - A stimulation of hemopoietic cells does not significantly alter this process .
Via this binding , nicked beta2GPI attenuates the antiangiogenic functions of AS4 . 5 in the proliferation of arterial / venous endothelial cells , in the extracellular matrix invasion and the tube formation of venous endothelial cells , and in vivo angiogenesis .
Glucose consumption by drug - resistant myeloma cells was unaffected by 8 - aminoadenosine , and accordingly , no activation of autophagy was observed .
We demonstrated that Evi - 1 represses TGF - beta signaling and antagonizes its growth - inhibitory effects .
However , the exact mechanisms of ARF action yet remain unclear and require further studies by different specialists at both the molecular genetic and other levels of investigation .
First clinical control with second angiography was performed 6 weeks after irradiation , then in 3 - month intervals .
Antivascular actions of microtubule - binding drugs .
RAF265 , a novel B - Raf / vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 2 inhibitor , was evaluated in the preclinical setting for its ability to inhibit the uptake of PET tracers in the A375M ( B - Raf ( V600E ) ) human melanoma cell line .
Tunicamycin - treatment resulted in 75 - 90 % inhibition in [ 3H ] mannose incorporation but only 20 - 25 % inhibition in [ 3H ] thymidine and [ 3H ] leucine incorporation .
The tyrosine kinase inhibitor cediranib blocks ligand - induced vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 3 activity and lymphangiogenesis .
Changes in c - FLIP ( L ) and cFLIPs levels were observed in some but not all the cell lines studied following glucose deprivation .
Finally , in human umbilical cord blood cells , we show that endothelial precursors make up only approximately 1 in 10 ( 7 ) mononuclear cells but are highly enriched in the CD133 + cell population .
The frequent expression of cytolytic effector markers in the CD2 + surface CD3 - CD56 + putative NK - cell lymphomas lends further support to their probable NK cell origin .
Statistical analysis revealed a significantly inverse correlation between AI and IMVD ( r = - 0 . 53 , P less than 0 . 01 ) .
The malate - citrate cycle was studied during aerobic glycolysis and glutaminolysis in a strain of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells which showed a very low malate - aspartate shuttle system activity .
The number of retinal vascular findings was not significantly correlated with serous elevation of the retina .
Angiogenesis is essential for tumor growth and metastasis .
The genetic basis of increased glycolytic activity observed in cancer cells is likely to be the result of complex interactions of multiple regulatory pathways .
Effects of 3 - chloromethylthiochromone - 1 , 1 - dioxide on nucleic acid , protein , and aerobic and anaerobic metabolism of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells .
In down modulated growing cells , PDBu caused almost complete inhibition of EGF binding , whereas in down modulated stationary cells , minimal inhibition of EGF binding by PDBu was observed .
A vascular prosthesis needs angiogenesis for endothelialization of the luminal surface , as endothelial cells have natural and permanent antithrombogenic properties .
Use of iodine - 123 - alpha - methyl tyrosine ( 123I - IMT ) allows investigation of the amino acid transport rate in gliomas .
Because poor skin wound healing associated with diabetes is thought to be partly a result from impaired angiogenesis , treatments that improve angiogenesis could have important clinical applications .
BACKGROUND : Impaired expression of E - cadherin and alpha - and beta - catenin is frequently observed in several human cancers .
In contrast , pellets from the CLA - fed animals contained fewer infiltrating cells , which formed limited branching cellular networks , the majority of which had collapsed lumen and no RBCs .
Significant correlation between the osteoblastic marker BAP , TGF - beta1 , and bFGF suggests strain - activated osteoblastic cells as a major source of systemically increased bone growth factors during callus distraction .
This study determines the relationship between preoperative serum sVAP - 1 levels and clinicopathological features and prognosis in gastric cancer .
Cloning and characterization of the latent membrane protein ( LMP ) of a specific Epstein - Barr virus variant derived from the nasopharyngeal carcinoma in the Taiwanese population .
Thus , allogeneic injection of FM - MSC may be a new therapeutic strategy for the treatment of severe peripheral vascular disease .
There was a significant positive relationship between PAI - 1 levels and T - stage ( p = < 0 . 05 ) in the total group , and survival status ( p = < 0 . 05 ) in the SCC subgroup alone .
LMP1 of Epstein - Barr virus induces proliferation of primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts and cooperatively transforms the cells with a p16 - insensitive CDK4 oncogene .
We show mutation of S727 to the phosphomimetic residue Glu , and inactivation of Y705 ( Y705F / S727E ) resulted in a remarkable growth advantage in low - serum , enhanced anchorage - independent growth in soft agar , and increased tumorigenicity in nonobese diabetic / severe combined immunodeficient ( NOD / SCID ) mice , possibly by direct activation of downstream proto - oncogenes c - myc , mcl - 1 , and survivin .
In 3 months - old mice , pigmented cells were detected in spleen and inguinal lymph nodes .
AQP5 was expressed mainly in cell membranes in carcinoma tissues , but was almost absent in normal breast tissues .
Endothelial cell expression of c - src was constitutively elevated after stable infection with a retroviral vector containing the c - src coding sequence .
Acute ethanol exposure disrupts VEGF receptor cell signaling in endothelial cells .
Surprisingly , however , further phosphorylation of this protein on addition of phorbol ester was greatly reduced .
The role of organ vascularization and lipoplex - serum initial contact in intravenous murine lipofection .
Expressions of KISS1 mRNA and protein were significantly higher in low TNM stages of NSCLC ( I - II ) compared to more advanced stages ( III - IV ) ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
In conclusion , GA may have the potential to be an effective agent for prevention and treatment of gastric cancer metastasis .
Although short treatments with LeTx only modestly affected cell proliferation , sustained treatment markedly reduced cell numbers .
This is particularly true for inflammatory bowel diseases ( IBD ) , such as ulcerative colitis and Crohn ' s disease , which show a major increased risk for colorectal cancer .
With the enhancement of FPC concentration , the authors observed chromatin condensation in some phases companying with the characteristic apoptosis .
In this study , to examine hypoxia - specific production of anti - angiogenic therapeutic gene , we constructed 5 copies of HRE ( 5xHRE ) of human VEGF linked to soluble Tie2 ( sTie2 ) driven by minimal SV40 promoter ( 5xHRE / SV40 / sTie2 ) .
We failed to find the statistical difference between IMVD and tumor T - stage in LSCC .
However , in N - ras - transformed cell clones , RA - induced expression of these homeobox genes is delayed .
To understand the biologic mechanisms of this extremely effective response , we compared by microarray the gene - expression profile of patients ' biopsies taken before and after radiation .
However , E mu - directed coexpression of cyclin D1 and N - MYC or L - MYC in double transgenic mice reveals a strong cooperative effect between MYC and cyclin D1 provoking the rapid development of clonal pre - B and B - cell lymphomas .
These data suggest that c - FLIP may play a critical role in regulating Fas - mediated apoptosis in prostate cancer cells and that modulation of c - FLIP may enhance Fas signaling based therapies .
The aim of this study was to compare the effects of PRP and platelet - poor plasma ( PPP ) on healing of critical - size bone defects . Bilateral full - thickness , critical - size bone defects were created in the parietal bones of 32 rabbits , which had been studied in 4 groups .
As SET has been previously reported to be an inhibitor of phosphatase PP2A , the nuclear phosphatase activity was monitored in cells expressing activated Galpha ( 12 ) .
Comparison between RNA / DNA sequence of viral oncogenes and normal human genome of non - transformed cells revealed high sequence similarities in specific genomic areas , which were named cellular proto - oncogens .
In contrast , none of the patients with JEB had elevated levels of bFGF .
In comparison , by day 24 , the majority of groups also treated with prednisolone displayed significantly less corneal clouding and neovascularization .
Attenuation of NF - kappaB activation by TSC phenolic fraction was associated with significant decrease of intracellular PKC substrate phosphorylation in BPDE treated cells .
The steroidal - based drug 2 - ethyloestradiol - 3 , 17 - O , O - bis - sulphamate ( STX243 ) has been developed as a potent antiangiogenic and antitumour compound .
Glycolysis of 3T3 and Ehrlich ascites tumor cells was greatly enhanced by Nonidet P - 40 or Triton X - 100 at about 100 micrograms / mg cell protein .
Role of the interferon - inducible IFI16 gene in the induction of ICAM - 1 by TNF - alpha .
It involves endothelial cell activation , basal membrane degradation , leukocyte invasion , proliferation of vascular cells , neointima formation ( in most species studied ) , and changes of the extracellular matrix .
DNA microarray analysis of treated tumor xenografts revealed significantly decreased expression of genes regulating glucose and thymidine metabolism and revealed changes in apoptotic genes , suggesting that the imaging tracers FDG , 3 - deoxy - 3 - [ ( 18 ) F ] fluorothymidine , and annexin V could serve as potential imaging biomarkers for RAF265 therapy monitoring .
Using wound - healing assay and Boyden chamber assay , GA had potent inhibitory effects on AGS cell migration .
Tumorigenic activity of rho genes from Aplysia californica .
This effect was mediated , at least partly , through caspase activation .
Inhibition of p38 SAPK reduced CBP HAT activity and its recruitment to the SRF . MRTF - A complex , whereas enforced induction of p38 by upstream activators ( e . g . MKK3 and MKK6 ) enhanced both CBP HAT and CCN1 promoter activities .
These findings demonstrate that beclin 1 is a haplo - insufficient tumor - suppressor gene and provide genetic evidence that autophagy is a novel mechanism of cell - growth control and tumor suppression .
VEGF might be an important angiogenic factor , and could promote tumor angiogenesis in LSCC .
Taken together , the lines of evidence demonstrate that betulin triggers apoptosis of human cancer cells through the intrinsic apoptotic pathway .
Heparin - steroid conjugates : new angiogenesis inhibitors with antitumor activity in mice .
The single non - epithelial line induced foci and was found to contain an activated c - Ki - ras gene with a G - - - - A transition in codon 12 .
[ An experimental study on angiogenesis of non - vascularized autogenous bone graft with vascular bundle implantation ]
Plasminogen activator ( PA ) content of excised tumors was determined by SDS - PAGE , and major PA was found to be urokinase ( UK ) type .
Vascular endothelial growth factor - B and vascular endothelial growth factor - C expression in renal cell carcinomas : regulation by the von Hippel - Lindau gene and hypoxia .
Boyden double - membrane analysis of chemotaxis showed that 9E3 / CEF4 was chemotactic for chicken peripheral blood mononuclear cells , as well as for heterophils .
Despite convincing evidence of its efficacy , little is known about the mechanism of action of TnI as an anti - proliferative and anti - angiogenic agent .
Two of 12 cell lines formed xenografts in mice .
Of the 14 tumors that expressed CD40 , all but 1 ( 93 % ) had either nodal or systemic metastasis at the time of diagnosis .
Promoter hypermethylation of APC was observed in 54 . 65 per cent ( 47 of 86 ) of cases .
PURPOSE : We studied retrospectively the interaction between c - erbB2 overexpression and adjuvant tomoxifen in node - negative breast cancer patients enrolled in the Gruppo Universitario Napoletano 1 ( GUN - 1 ) trial .
Higher platelet concentrations may expose beneficial effects of PRP .
Depletion of Rab7a decreased VEGFR2 Y1175 phosphorylation but increased p42 / 44 ( pERK1 / 2 ) MAPK phosphorylation .
Ultimately , the primary site was established on clinical and radiographic grounds in 71 cases ( 95 % ) .
In this cell line , c - myb is activated by insertional mutagenesis and cannot be effectively down regulated by cytokine .
2 - DG did not induce a significant cell cycle delay in monolayers , while a transient G ( 2 ) delay was apparent in spheroids .
Although AID activity is focused at Immunoglobulin ( Ig ) gene loci , it also targets a wide array of non - Ig genes including oncogenes associated with lymphomas .
Our data show a significant loss of Plexin C1 in metastatic melanoma compared with primary melanoma , suggesting the possibility that the Plexin C1 receptor is a tumor suppressor protein for melanoma .
Roles of cell adhesion molecules in tumor angiogenesis induced by cotransplantation of cancer and endothelial cells to nude rats .
METHODS : The authors evaluated plasma endostatin ( PE ) levels using an enzyme linked immunoassay in 71 patients with acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) and 43 patients with myelodysplastic syndrome ( MDS ) , and correlated PE with various clinical parameters .
In patients with pancreatic carcinoma , the levels of fibrinogen in the group with jaundice were significantly higher than in patients without jaundice ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Semaphorin 7A ( Sema7A ) is a membrane - linked semaphorin that is expressed by human keratinocytes , and we have shown that Sema7A binds to human melanocytes through beta1 - integrins and the Plexin C1 receptor .
Prostaglandin E2 production was measured by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay .
Meanwhile , the adhesion and invasion ability of MCF - 7 cells were sharply inhibited when treated with different concentrations of curcumin .
Experiments using the tsA 58 allele of the SV 40 - A gene have demonstrated that the SV 40 large T - antigen is strictly required both for immortalization and induction anchorage independence of cells .
However , in vivo , Bmi - 1 over - expression had little effect on CNS stem cell frequency , subventricular zone proliferation , olfactory bulb neurogenesis , or neurogenesis / gliogenesis during development .
However , it is not sufficient for the immortalization of MEF , and MEF - LMP1 ( TRADD ) cells eventually enter growth arrest .
During lymphomagenesis , induction of persistent telomerase expression and activity may occur before or after telomere shortening , as a consequence of the different mechanisms through which transforming factors / agents may activate telomerase .
This limitation may be resolved by in vivo delivery and expression of the antiangiogenic genes .
TP catalyzes the conversion of thymidine to thymine and doxyribose - 1 - phosphate ( dR - 1 - P ) .
Two patients presented both RUNX1 mutations and RUNX1 - PRDM16 fusion .
Cells which had been grown in medium containing 1 ng / ml TGF - beta developed colony - forming capacity in soft agar containing epidermal growth factor .
BACKGROUND : Aberrant angiogenesis is a landmark feature in cancer , which is important for proliferation , growth and metastasis , and is mediated by various pro - angiogenic factors .
Sunitinib markedly induced apoptosis of PC12 cells in a dose - dependent and time - dependent manner .
IL - 8 or CXCL8 has been associated with tumor angiogenesis , metastasis , and poor prognosis in breast cancer .
Bone marrow with its unique native properties produced autocrine angiogenicity in the graft .
After 15 days , the clots were examined by histology and electron microscopy .
Possible translation of our knowledge to cancer therapeutics will also be discussed .
Patients were followed up until bone metastases were established .
It may be that metastasis suppression by the nm23 gene is a tissue - specific phenomenon .
The expression of HLA - DR was correlated with the histologic type .
LDH5 overexpression in cancer cells induces an upregulated glycolytic metabolism and reduced dependence on the presence of oxygen .
The deregulated Bcr / Abl tyrosine kinase is responsible for the development of Philadelphia ( Ph ) - positive leukemia in humans .
While many genetic alterations have been identified in melanoma , the relevant molecular events that contribute to disease progression are poorly understood .
The erbA / myb IRES virus exhibited a 5 - 10 - fold higher transformed colony forming efficiency than the erbA IRES virus in the blastoderm assay .
Here we report that the chemotherapeutic drug doxorubicin , a DNA - damaging agent , activates a p53 - survivin signaling pathway inducing cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ) .
Moreover , we observed an increase in apoptosis of latent gene - expressing cells after the pharmacologic deletion of the vGPCR - expressing cells .
Immunohistochemical analysis revealed Fas - positive cells and apoptotic cells preferentially within the proximal colon region , clearly at the site of bovine lactoferrin - mediated tumor inhibition .
They also induced local angiogenesis in vivo in an animal model .
RESULTS : PLD was significantly higher than ILD ( p < . 001 ) .
Activity of several transcriptional factors located downstream in the Akt pathway was also tested , and constitutive activation of adenosine 3 ' , 5 ' - monophosphate response element - binding protein ( CREB ) by ICAM - 3 was detected .
Homeobox genes in hematopoiesis and leukemogenesis .
However , this modular protein core also binds with relatively high affinity to a number of growth factors and surface receptors , thereby stabilizing cell - matrix links .
The neoplastic transformation of cultured rat liver epithelial cells by various means has consistently been associated with the development of resistance to the mito - inhibitory effect of transforming growth factor beta ( TGF - beta ) , suggesting that such phenotype plays a mechanistic role during the transformation of these cells .
Cells cannot survive extended severe ischemia but may be able to adapt to a moderate condition where diffusion to and from bordering nonischemic regions sustains vital functions .
The purpose of the present study was to measure the MVD and VEGF expression in a cohort of patients with betel - associated OSCC and to evaluate for possible clinicopathologic correlations .
Angiopoietin - 2 ( Ang - 2 ) is prominently up - regulated in the host - derived vasculature of most tumors , making it an attractive candidate for antiangiogenic intervention .
Thus , our data show that allergic respiratory inflammation may represent a risk factor for the development of lung metastases and suggest that amelioration of the pulmonary inflammation associated with asthma will have a direct and immediate benefit to the 7 % to 8 % of breast cancer patients with this lung disease .
Tumors greater than 35 mm3 treated with IR 24 hours previously or with TEMF had decreased blood vessels in the subcortex and more endothelial pseudopods projecting into hypoxic , HIF positive areas than tumors from the control group .
Western blot analysis demonstrated a > 2 . 5 - fold increase in Fas protein expression , as well as elevation of the active forms of both caspase - 8 and caspase - 3 .
MMP - 2 is involved in the early steps of angiogenesis leading to local dissolution of basement membrane collagen and migration of the activated endothelial cells .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , fibroblast growth factor ( FGF ) , recombinant proteins and bone marrow stem cells are currently used therapeutic stimulators for angiogenesis .
Up - regulation of lipogenesis by androgen is one of the most characteristic metabolic features of LNCaP prostate cancer cells .
The marked induction of angiogenesis in glioblastomas suggests that it is a necessary part of malignant progression ; however , the precise molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of brain tumour growth and angiogenesis remain unresolved .
In cultured b . END5 cells the tumor necrosis factor alpha - induced up - regulation of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 and vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 was reduced in ECs that were preincubated with basic fibroblast growth factor or vascular endothelial growth factor .
Reduced expression of E - cadherin , an intercellular adhesion molecule of epithelial cells , has been reported to be associated with aggressive clinicopathological phenotypes in various cancers .
Transcriptional activity of HIF - 1 ( hypoxia - inducible factor - 1 ) has been reported to be up - regulated in solid tumors after ionizing radiation ; however , the molecular mechanism underlying the response remains to be elucidated .
Moreover , this study is the first in vivo report of the radiation - induced p53 apoptotic response in patients and suggests that this apoptotic response is not immunologically silent .
Killing tumor cells through their surface beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin or major histocompatibility complex class I molecules .
2 - methoxyestradiol inhibits hypoxia - inducible factor 1alpha , tumor growth , and angiogenesis and augments paclitaxel efficacy in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
An assay to measure angiogenesis in human fat tissue .
Using MDA - MB - 231 cells , in which FOXO3a activity can be induced by 4 - hydroxytamoxifen , we showed that FOXO3a induction up - regulates PI3K - Akt activity and enhanced doxorubicin resistance .
We tested the hypothesis that vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , an endothelial cell mitogen and a major regulator of angiogenesis , is upregulated in response to low heart rate and consequential increased stroke volume .
Thalidomide and angiostatin inhibit tumor growth in a murine xenograft model of human cervical cancer .
The in vivo properties of STX243 : a potent angiogenesis inhibitor in breast cancer .
VEGF is upregulated after hypoxic injury to the brain , which can occur during cerebral ischemia or high - altitude edema , and has been implicated in the blood - brain barrier breakdown associated with these conditions .
Transfection with hTERT alone , led to the immortalization of two out of three cultures of bone marrow - derived ECs ( BMECs ) .
RESULTS : Using ICG - DEP , CNV feeder vessels were closed with single pulse laser energy , delivering as little as 0 . 6 to 1 . 8 J of energy to the fundus , producing no visible change in the fundus .
This observed genomic instability will be of value in predicting the potential metastatic behavior of these aggressive pituitary tumors .
Highly specialized cells , the thyrocytes , express a thyroid - specific set of genes for thyroglobulin ( Tg ) , thyroperoxidase , and the transcription factors TTF - 1 , TTF - 2 , and Pax - 8 .
We conclude that increased PAI - 1 antigen levels may be associated with a decreased survival in patients with SCC .
These observations , combined with new molecular insights with HIF - 1alpha and c - myc , have rekindled an interest in this important phenotype .
Skin deep and deeper : multiple pathways in basal cell carcinogenesis .
Galpha ( 12 ) , the alpha - subunit of the G12 family of heterotrimeric G proteins is involved in the regulation of cell proliferation and neoplastic transformation .
The results revealed that the metastatic tumors in mouse lung were markedly decreased in a dose - dependent manner and acute lung injury induced by B16F10 melanoma metastasis was diminished by systemic rk - 2 treatment .
This allowed coexpression of the two proteins and a comparison with the same vector containing either v - erbA or v - myb only .
IL - 17F deficient Apc ( Min / + ) mice showed a significant decrease in immune cell infiltration in the lamina propria .
The archival surgical pathology files of The Johns Hopkins Hospital were searched for cases of brain metastases biopsied between 1990 and 2000 .
In epithelial cells , EphA2 and E - cadherin co - localize to sites of cell - cell contact , and it has been shown that E - cadherin regulates EphA2 .
This compound inhibits cellular ATP production owing to its action on glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation ; however , the specific metabolic steps and mechanisms of 3 - BrPA action in human hepatocellular carcinomas , particularly its effects on mitochondrial energetics , are poorly understood .
We now show that c - MYC overexpression is sufficient to rescue proliferation and to release the differentiation block imposed by Runx2 .
Role of thrombogenic factors in the development of atherosclerosis .
Here , we have tested endocytic Rab GTPases for regulation of VEGFR2 trafficking and signaling linked to endothelial cell migration .
Antiapoptotic effect of coagulation factor VIIa .
Our results suggest heterogeneity in angiogenic activity and vessel maturation of CC - RCC , to a large extent linked to nuclear grade , and , with probable therapeutic implications .
The caprine placenta is usually considered to have increased interhemal distance compared with endotheliochorial and hemochorial types : our results suggest that the very extensive development of sinusoids and crypts may compensate for any negative consequences of the placental architecture .
A series of our studies revealed that for activation of the invasion pathway of EGFR , it is prerequisite that Arf6 and AMAP1 both are highly overexpressed , and that EGFR is activated by ligands .
We examined whether betulin , a naturally abundant compound , has anticancer functions in human cancer cells .
Endocytosis of the conjugate and decomposition of the acid - labile linkage inside lysosomes and other acidic intracellular compartments should then lead to release of the cortisol and expression of its antiproliferative activity .
We have previously characterized the structure of a gene in A - 172 human glioma cells that encodes a 190 - kDa EGFR mutant with tandem duplication of the tyrosine kinase ( TK ) and calcium - mediated internalization ( CAIN ) domains .
From in vivo experiments using new methods such as the rabbit cornea , it is now becoming clear that the growth of a capillary involves an ordered sequence of events that includes lysis of the basement membrane of a parent venule , directional migration of capillary endothelial cells toward the angiogenic stimulus , lumen formation , development of branches , and anastomosis of the tip of one tube with another to form a loop .
Hypoxia - responsive element - mediated soluble Tie2 vector exhibits an anti - angiogenic activity in vitro under hypoxic condition .
Our previous studies have shown that the neurotransmitter dopamine could inhibit VEGF - induced phosphorylation of VEGF receptor 2 ( VEGFR - 2 ) , endothelial cell proliferation , migration , microvascular permeability , and thus , angiogenesis .
PURPOSE : Heparin immobilized porous poly ( D , L - lactic - co - glycolic acid ) ( PLGA ) microspheres were prepared for sustained release of basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) to induce angiogenesis .
CONCLUSION : Merlin protein might contribute to the initiation of metastasis of NSCLC .
Moreover , we have found that gamma - hydroxybutyric acid and gamma - butyrolactone , the metabolites of FT , possess a potent angiogenesis inhibitory effect that is amplified when the compounds are administered by a continuous infusion .
The pro - oncogenic transcription factor STAT3 is constitutively activated in a wide variety of tumours that often become addicted to its activity , but no unifying view of a core function determining this widespread STAT3 - dependence has yet emerged .
Promoter region hypermethylation was significantly more common ( P < 0 . 008 ) in breast and ovarian cancer ( 6 / 38 tumours methylated ) than in colon cancer ( 0 / 35 tumours methylated ) or in leukaemias ( 0 / 19 samples methylated ) .
We have previously shown that massive apoptosis occurs when wild - type p53 or E2F - 1 expression is induced in glioma .
In vivo and in vitro results .
In addition , the model supports local tissue hypoxia in the liver and spleen , coupled with increased erythropoeitin signaling and erythropoiesis in the spleen and BM , and suppression of mechanisms that contribute to genomic stability , events that could be contributing factors to hemangiosarcoma formation .
Epidermal growth factor and its receptor .
Clusterin expression level depends on cell proliferation state , and we recently showed that its over - expression inhibited cell cycle progression of SV40 - immortalized human prostate epithelial cells PNT2 and PNT1a .
The study presented here examined the ability of specific regions and activities of T antigen to modulate apoptosis in cells treated with the genotoxic agent 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) .
Medical therapy for intermittent claudication .
Close surveillance for arterial and venous thrombotic events is recommended .
p63 also correlated with advanced pathological stage , tumor size , and the expression of human telomerase reverse transcriptase ( hTERT ) , tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase 1 ( TIMP1 ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
By contrast to the cytoplasmic BAG - 1 isoforms , BAG - 1L may act to suppress tumorigenesis .
In addition to p16 ( INK4A ) , the INK4A locus encodes a splice variant , termed p12 - - specifically expressed in human pancreas - - and ARF , a protein encoded by an alternative reading frame that acts as a tumor suppressor through the p53 pathway .
CONCLUSIONS : Enoxaparine Na decreased intra - abdominal adhesions , and HBO therapy had no beneficial effect on adhesions .
Recently , overexpression of EphA2 , a member of the Eph family of receptor tyrosine kinases , has been reported in several cancers .
CSC - high cultures and tumors expressed increased levels of the proangiogenic factors vascular endothelial growth factor and stromal - derived factor 1 , and when signaling by either factor was blocked , all aspects of angiogenesis observed in CSC - high cultures and tumors , including microvessel density , perfusion , EPC mobilization / recruitment , and stimulation of endothelial cell activity , were reduced to levels comparable with those observed in CSC - low cultures / tumors .
RESULTS : VEGF isoforms and its receptors ' mRNA were expressed in neuroblastoma and control tissues .
The anti - apoptotic protein c - FLIP ( cellular Flice - like inhibitory protein ) , which has been shown to inhibit Fas - mediated apoptosis at the DISC , was down - regulated following AdGFPFasL ( TET ) treatment prompting us to investigate its role in inhibiting CH - 11 - induced cell death .
In this study , we have established stable cell lines overexpressing PLD1 and PLD2 from fibroblast cells .
This potentiation is accompanied by up - regulation of the expression of VEGF receptors ( kinase insert domain - containing receptor [ KDR ] and fms - like tyrosine kinase [ Flt - 1 ] ) .
Induction of Id - 1 by FGF - 2 involves activity of EGR - 1 and sensitizes neuroblastoma cells to cell death .
These results suggest that apoptosis caused by elevated expression of Fas is involved in chemoprevention by lactoferrin of colon carcinogenesis .
Together these results indicated that the revertant phenotype did not result from altered expression or mutations in the c - jun gene .
The angiogenic response of fat tissue is not identical to placental tissue .
The heterogeneity of nm23 - H1 gene product expression between primary cancers and metastatic lymph nodes was observed in 41 . 3 % .
Enhanced expression of vascular endothelial growth factor by periodontal pathogens in gingival fibroblasts .
OBJECTIVE : p53 plays a role in tumor angiogenesis , and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) plays a key role in tumor angiogenesis .
CONCLUSIONS : Intravitreal bevacizumab can be used to treat radiation retinopathy .
At intervals of four to 14 days , the animals were challenged by intrastromal inoculation with 10 , 000 plaque - forming units of viable HSV .
Hyperfibrinogenemia ( > 310 mg / dl ) was independently associated with lymph node ( Odds Ratio ; 2 . 342 , P = 0 . 0032 ) and liver ( Odds Ratio ; 2 . 933 , P = 0 . 0147 ) metastasis , not with peritoneal metastasis in this series .
None of the epithelial cell lines induced foci in a focus formation assay .
DMI inhibited cell proliferation in a time - dependent manner .
To this end , we generated endothelial cell lines stably expressing vGPCR or key KSHV latently expressed proteins ( vCyclin , vFlip , and LANA1 ) .
Selective inhibition of PI3K / Akt suppressed the NF - kappaB - induced BMP - 2 promoter activity .
Systemic regulation of distraction osteogenesis : a cascade of biochemical factors .
Furthermore , the renal carcinoma cell lines expressed PAF - R .
Forty - seven specimens resected from patients with stage II and III squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) of the esophagus were studied using immunohistochemical staining .
Nitric oxide synthase inhibition results in synergistic anti - tumour activity with melphalan and tumour necrosis factor alpha - based isolated limb perfusions .
PTHrP is also associated with the progression of skeletal metastases , and its dysregulated expression in advanced cancers causes malignancy - associated hypercalcemia .
According to these different functions , the role of c - Myc protein in cellular sensitivity to anti - cancer drugs is controversial .
PURPOSE : The comparative study of differentially expression of protein profiles of hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines with various metastasic potential and screening key molecules related to hepatocellular carcinoma metastasis and recurrence .
Prevention of hepatic tumor metastases in rats with herpes viral vaccines and gamma - interferon .
Experiments with a temperature - sensitive mutant of Rous sarcoma virus demonstrated that a single oncogene product is sufficient to inhibit the synthesis .
These data complement work that shows that HPV16 E7 also interacts with p600 , and that this interaction correlates with the ability of HPV16 E7 to transform cells .
Diacylglycerol ( DG ) plays a central role in phospholipid metabolism and is an endogenous activator of protein kinase C .
The pentapeptide SFLLR , like thrombin , caused a marked stimulation of angiogenesis in the CAM .
Systemic inhibitors of TNF such as etanercept ( Enbrel ) ( a soluble TNF receptor ) and infliximab ( Remicade ) and adalimumab ( Humira ) ( anti - TNF antibodies ) have been approved for the treatment inflammatory bowel disease , psoriasis and rheumatoid arthritis .
However , the cellular functions of VASP are not known .
Median overall and progression - free survivals are 14 . 4 and 4 . 7 months , respectively .
In the colon carcinoma experiment , mean permeability and perfusion decreased by 51 % ( from 5 . 2 + / - 1 . 1 to 2 . 5 + / - 0 . 8 ml / 100 ml ) and 59 % ( from 0 . 00165 + / - 5 . 1 to 0 . 0067 + / - 4 . 8 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) of tissue ) , respectively , in all animals after antiangiogenic drug administration .
Partial tissue oxygen tension ( PtO ( 2 ) ) was measured with polarographic microprobes ; epithelial metabolism was monitored by microdialysis inside the TET epithelium perfused with the medium underneath .
Despite the insufficient number of experimental studies , platelet - rich plasma ( PRP ) including high amounts of growth factors is introduced to clinical use rapidly .
RESULTS : The OSCC samples had an average h - MVD score of 27 . 7 / mm ( 2 ) .
Down syndrome critical region gene 1 ( DSCR - 1 ) short variant ( DSCR - 1s ) is an inhibitor of calcineurin / NFAT signaling encoded by exons 4 - 7 of DSCR1 .
Activation of vascular endothelial growth factor through reactive oxygen species mediates 20 - hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid - induced endothelial cell proliferation .
All of these parameters were reduced by the COX - II inhibitors , suggesting that changes in the vasculature are responsible for the decrease in serum progesterone .
Therefore , to understand their role in tumor invasion , it is necessary to evaluate them collectively .
It was recently reported for its anticancer effect on several types of cancer cells in vitro however , the molecular mechanisms of this anticancer effect are not fully understood .
Targeting TNF for Treatment of Cancer and Autoimmunity .
Platelet - derived growth factor ( PDGF ) and its receptors ( PDGFR ) play important roles in tumorigenesis through stimulating tumor growth and promoting angiogenesis via enhancing pericyte recruitment and vessel maturation .
Lesion composition also appears to influence visual outcome with verteporfin use .
Thus , metabolically - altered islet endothelium might affect the beta - cell microenvironment and contribute to progressive type 2 diabetic beta - cell dysfunction in GK rats .
Moreover , SMI496 caused cell retraction and cytoskeletal collapse of endothelial cells as well as delayed endothelial cell wound healing .
The present study demonstrates that Tie1 expression is rapidly down - regulated in endothelial cells exposed to shear stress , and more so to shear stress changes .
We performed comparative proteomic and pathway analysis of four human metastatic HCC cell lines to identify metastasis - associated proteins .
Grape seed extract inhibits angiogenesis via suppression of the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor signaling pathway .
The mechanisms by which hypoxic tumor environments induce HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression are largely unknown .
Taken together , our findings suggest that ICAM - 3 stimulates cancer cell migration / invasion via ICAM - 3 / Akt / CREB / MMP pathway regardless of p53 and PTEN status , and this reflects the possibility that ICAM - 3 could be considered as a candidate for anti - cancer drug development and as a cancer diagnostic marker .
While TSP - 2 deficiency did not affect tumor differentiation or proliferation , tumor cell apoptosis was significantly reduced .
Pharmacologic agents have been identified that target these pathways , yet for some agents ( notably thalidomide ) , an understanding of the specific mechanisms of antitumor action has proved elusive .
Both agents inhibited angiogenesis and induced apoptosis when compared to tumors from control animals .
This organ is derived from an upwards growth of the primitive oropharynx , a K5 - expressing tissue .
Terminal transferase dUTP end - labeling assay and TEM studies of anti - IGF - IR - treated lungs demonstrated numerous apoptotic mesenchymal cells .
Interference with the function of transcription factor AP - 2 might provide a potential strategy for modulation of the malignant phenotype .
The keratin 5 ( K5 ) promoter drives transgenic expression to the basal cell layer of stratified epithelia .
Furthermore melanoma cells transfected with a uPA variant , which had an impaired interaction with PAI - 1 , were not invasive and had impaired binding to vitronectin .
After two courses , the primary tumor was reduced to an ulcer scar with pathological confirmation of a complete disappearance of the cancer tissue .
Viability , measured by the activity of mitochondrial dehydrogenases , was reduced significantly in the cells treated with Sim at 50 and 100 microM for 24 hours ( p < 0 . 005 ) .
Several enzyme systems have been implicated in the metastatic process , but the metalloproteinases ( MPs ) appear to be the major group involved in most instances of neoplastic invasion .
Actin - sequestering protein , thymosin beta - 4 , is a novel hypoxia responsive regulator .
Matrigel plug neovascularization assay revealed that systemic angiogenic activity was elevated after primary tumor removal ( tumor intact group , 1 . 61 + / - 0 . 21 g / dL ; tumor removed group , 4 . 92 + / - 0 . 35 g / dL ) .
We have modelled multiple stages of malignant transformation of human endothelial cells ( ECs ) by overexpressing the catalytic subunit of human telomerase ( hTERT ) , together with SV40 T antigen ( SV40T ) and oncogenic N - ras .
In this study , 14 of 18 lung cancer cell lines ( 78 % ) expressed CD40 on their surface .
Phosphorylation of BimL by Pak1 prevents it from interacting with and inactivation of Bcl - 2 , an antiapoptotic protein .
Tumor angiogenesis might contribute to tumor malignant progression by inhibiting spontaneous apoptosis in LSCC .
These results may have chemotherapeutic implications for using emodin to target HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing cancer cells .
Expression of two type II - like tumor hexokinase RNA transcripts in cancer cell lines .
The antibody also blocks ligand - stimulated activation of PDGFRbeta and downstream signaling molecules , including Akt and MAPK p42 / 44 , in tumor cells .
Heparin was surface immobilized via covalent conjugation .
Vessel density ( MVD - microvessel density ) , endothelial cell proliferation fraction ( ECP % ) and tumour cell proliferation fraction ( TCP % ) were assessed .
Activation of Ca2 + entry is known to produce endothelial cell shape change , leading to increased permeability , leukocyte migration , and initiation of angiogenesis in conduit - vessel endothelial cells .
Histopathological development of gastric tumors induced by N - methyl - N ' - nitro - N - nitrosoguanidine in rats .
This review focuses on the application of therapeutic angiogenesis for treating ischemic muscle disease and includes a critical evaluation of the parameters and limitations of current procedures .
The mean BCVA increased from 20 / 76 to 20 / 64 .
The aim of this study was to address the role of pro - and anti - angiogenic molecules in diabetic retinopathy in the aqueous humor of the eye .
Thus , DATS may represent a colon cancer preventive agent and can be used in the future .
Mechanistically , it reduced expression of molecular markers of cell proliferation ( Ki67 ) and angiogenesis ( factor VIII ) , antiapoptotic factor Bcl - 2 , cell - cycle progression regulator cyclin D1 , and survival factor AKT1 .
Here , we demonstrate that Ang1 halts the ability of VEGF to induce the phosphorylation - dependent redistribution of the adhesion molecule VE - cadherin , thereby rescuing the endothelial barrier function .
OBJECTIVE : Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 ( VEGFR2 ) is a receptor tyrosine kinase that regulates vascular physiology .
Neurosensorial retinal detachment decreased in 80 % of cases .
Synthetic vascular prostheses are foreign bodies , so that blood coagulation can occur on their luminal surfaces , causing graft occlusion very frequently in prostheses of small diameter .
By use of electric mobility shift assays , we demonstrate that alpha - MSH ( 10 ( - 6 ) to 10 ( - 14 ) M ) activates AP - 1 in human dermal fibroblasts , whereas coincubation with interleukin - 1 beta ( IL - 1 beta ) results in suppression of its activation .
Apoptosis induced by 1 ' - acetoxychavicol acetate in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells is associated with modulation of polyamine metabolism and caspase - 3 activation .
Inhibition of NF - kappaB significantly reduced transcript levels and autocrine production of BMP - 2 by rhTNF - alpha stimulated C4 - 2B cells and to a lesser extent by the parental LNCaP cells .
Induction of Ets - 1 in endothelial cells during reendothelialization after denuding injury .
Treatment with all - trans - RA decreased the level of these enzymes in the cellular , cell membrane , and conditioned medium compartments . ( ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS )
Increasing evidence suggests that EMT plays a specific role in the migration of cells from a primary tumor into the circulation and may provide a rationale for developing more effective cancer therapies .
Elevated serum soluble VAP - 1 ( sVAP - 1 ) levels occur in certain diseases having an inflammatory component .
These studies therefore indicate a specific and a regulatory role of the PKCalpha isoform in three major endothelial cell functions that are important in the maintenance of microvascular homeostasis .
Here , we show that the proto - oncogene N - myc promoter was down - regulated by WT1 in transient transfection assays .
Mice with tumor xenograft and experimental metastasis model were used to evaluate effects on tumor growth and metastasis .
Here we provide evidence that lactate and pyruvate regulate hypoxia - inducible gene expression independently of hypoxia by stimulating the accumulation of hypoxia - inducible Factor 1alpha ( HIF - 1alpha ) .
These results define a novel function of Evi - 1 as a repressor of signaling components of TGF - beta .
METHODS : This review outlines and compares the latest development of these strategies , with emphasis on aflibercept , a novel decoy fusion protein of domain 2 of VEGFR - 1 and domain 3 of VEGFR - 2 with the Fc fragment of IgG1 .
Patients have been treated between January 1996 and October 1997 .
A significant correlation between LDH5 and TKTL1 within each histologic tumortype could not be revealed .
To examine whether IFI16 induction might be extended to other proinflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) - alpha , we used the strategy of the RNA interference to knock down IFI16 expression , and analyze the capability of TNF - alpha to stimulate intercellular adhesion molecule - 1 ( ICAM - 1 or CD54 ) expression in the absence of functional IFI16 .
A specific histone deacetylase ( HDAc ) inhibitor , trichostatin A ( TSA ) , alleviates Evi - 1 - mediated repression of TGF - beta signaling , suggesting that HDAc is involved in transcriptional repression by Evi - 1 .
In addition , silencing of S6K1 induced apoptosis accompanied by a decrease in the phosphorylation of BAD and Bcl - 2 , similar to that observed with sunitinib treatment .
Recombinants that lacked miR - BHRF1 - 2 or miR - BHRF1 - 3 displayed enhanced EBNA expression initiated at the Cp and Wp promoters .
The WNT / TCF target genes HOXB9 and LEF1 are identified as mediators of chemotactic invasion and colony outgrowth .
GDP and AGE receptors : mechanisms of peritoneal damage .
Statistically significant relationship between p53 expression in primary oral cancers and its expression in lymph node metastases ( P < 0 . 02 ) as well as increased expression of Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 in metastatic sites compared with primary tumors could indicate an association of these proteins with oral cancer progression and development of metastases .
In oral keratinocytes BAG - 1L , but not BAG - 1M and BAG - 1S , enhanced VDR transactivation in response to 1alpha , 25 - dihydroxyvitamin D3 .
A long - lived line , RSVT - 2 , was produced and an immortalized subclone , RSVT2 / C , was further derived under a forced crisis regimen .
CONCLUSIONS : DCE - MRI permits a noninvasive evaluation of tumour microcirculation and in particular of its dynamic characteristics and vascularity before and after antiangiogenic treatment .
The level of apoptosis , as measured by annexin binding to exposed phosphatidylserine moieties , increased significantly in the treated cells at concentrations higher than 50 microM for 24 hours ( p < 0 . 003 ) .
This probably results in the slower rate of osteogenesis seen at the 1 mm / day distraction rate compared with the 0 . 5 mm / day distraction rate .
Role of the fibrinolytic and matrix metalloproteinase systems in development of adipose tissue .
In vitro studies using monolayer cultures of human tumor cell lines have shown that 2 - DG selectively inhibits energy - dependent DNA repair and cellular recovery processes in cancer cells .
After 7 months median visual acuity ( VA ) was 20 / 160 for the irradiated and 20 / 400 for the untreated patients .
METHODS : Immunohistochemical and PCR - SSCP techniques were used to detect c - kit protein expression and c - kit gene exon 11 mutation in 82 patients with GIST .
Synthesis and degradation of the EGF receptor are regulated , in addition , covalent modification by phosphorylation regulates activity of the receptor protein .
Joint haemorrhage and subsequent haemophilic arthropathy are significant complications in haemophilia .
Implications for a possible role of tumor cell / host TGF - beta interactions in human breast cancer progression .
Specifically , CLA was found to decrease the ability of mammary stromal cells to form complex anastomosing microcapillary networks in vitro on Engelbreth - Holm - Swarm - derived reconstituted basement membrane .
Here , we investigate the role of TSP - 1 in tumor - stroma reaction , which is mainly characterized by fibroblast activation to create a permissive microenvironment for tumor progression .
Recently , there is an increasing number of patents which have been focused on the inhibitors of VEGF action .
We examined the status and regulation of semaphorins and their receptors in human ovarian cancer cells .
In the developing retinal vasculature , numerous , long filamentous filopodia , emanating from endothelial cells at the tips of angiogenic sprouts , were observed in wild - type animals , but to a lesser extent in the PECAM - 1 - null mice .
This chapter focuses on the morphology of blood vessel formation in and around the early central nervous system ( CNS , i . e . , brain and spinal cord ) of avian embryos .
Concordance in topo I staining between primary and lymph node metastases was observed in 33 of 42 cases ( P = . 029 ) .
Clinical data on bevacizumab is discussed in detail .
DNA microarray analysis and small animal PET studies may be used as complementary technologies in drug development .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and its receptors are key regulators of the process of angiogenesis , which makes them attractive therapeutic targets .
Pericytes occur in tumour blood vessels and are critical for the development of a functional vascular network .
The induction of elevated p53 levels commenced at immediate - early times of the HCMV multiplication cycle ( 6 h postinfection ) and reached maximal levels by 24 h postinfection , before most of the HCMV DNA synthesis was initiated .
Using a Matrigel plug - based model , in vivo angiogenesis was restricted with STX243 and STX140 ( 50 and 72 % , respectively , using a 10 mg kg ( - 1 ) oral dose ) , thereby showing the antiangiogenic activity of both compounds .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : We used rAAV2 / 5 to deliver vasostatin intratumorally or systemically in different mouse lung tumor models - - subcutaneous , orthotopic xenograft , and spontaneous metastasis lung tumor models .
CONCLUSIONS : MDM2 expression quantified by image analysis was weakly associated with DM .
We also speculate that this synchronizes them into a temporal highly chemosensitive state and is the underlying reason why adjuvant chemotherapy works particularly well for that patient category .
Effect of platelet - rich plasma and fibrin glue on healing of critical - size calvarial bone defects .
Therefore , we have identified a novel role for PSMA as a true molecular interface , integrating both extracellular and intracellular signals during angiogenesis .
A novel role of thrombospondin - 1 in cervical carcinogenesis : inhibit stroma reaction by inhibiting activated fibroblasts from invading cancer .
RESULTS : Thirty - two of 35 patients ( median age , 62 years ) are evaluable for response .
The results showed that expression levels of both nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 mRNA varied in normal buccal mucosa , leukoplakia , adjacent nontumorous mucosa , submandibular gland , CBM and lymph nodes with or without metastasis .
KISS1 transcript expression was also associated with histopathological tumor stage ( P < 0 . 0005 ) .
Mutation analysis of latent membrane protein 1 ( LMP1 ) in Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) - induced B - cell immortalization revealed two transformation effector sites , TES1 and TES2 .
Identification of naturally occurring VEGF inhibitors derived from diet would be one alternative approach with an advantage of known safety .
The median response duration was 8 . 2 months .
To test this possibility , CD2 / F ( 1 ) mice were placed on synthetic diets containing 0 , 1 , or 2 % CLA for 6 weeks , before angiogenic challenge by s . c . injection with an angiogenic gel substrate ( Matrigel pellet assay ) .
After inhibition of gluconeogenesis , the plasma glucose decreased and the blood lactate increased significantly more in TB than NTB animals .
Effects of doxycycline on in vitro growth , migration , and gelatinase activity of breast carcinoma cells .
Cancer is no longer considered by scientists just a jumble of mutated cells .
RESULTS : 11 eyes of 11 patients were included in the study , which had a mean follow - up period of 11 months .
These results also suggest therapeutic implications concerning Wnt signaling inhibitors .
Vascular abnormalities in the retina were compared between patients with vascularized ( n = 34 , group 1 ) and nonvascularized ( n = 7 , group 2 ) PED on indocyanine green angiography and correlated with the size of the PED and the presence of serous retinal detachment .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : The tissues were stained with monoclonal antibodies to EGFR , TGF - alpha and Ki - 67 .
We also show that VEGFR1 + cells express VLA - 4 ( also known as integrin alpha4beta1 ) , and that tumour - specific growth factors upregulate fibronectin - - a VLA - 4 ligand - - in resident fibroblasts , providing a permissive niche for incoming tumour cells .
Our data suggest for the first time that S727 phosphorylation is sufficient to activate Stat3 , thereby driving prostate tumorigenesis independent of Y705 phosphorylation .
Atypically , abundant capillaries were observed ; however , the cystic proliferation of epithelioid cells with vacuoles and immunohistochemical profile of the epithelioid element were consistent with hepatic adenomatoid tumour .
Matrix metalloproteinase activity , determined using a quenched fluorescence substrate assay , increased during early healing ( 3 - 8 weeks ) compared to controls , and then decreased between 24 and 36 weeks after surgery ( p less than 0 . 05 until 24 weeks , Mann - Whitney U - test ) .
The conclusion most consistent with the data is that the two MSRs are overlapping , spliced RNAs .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : U - 995 was designed to study human umbilical vein endothelial cell ( HUVEC ) migration and proliferation in vitro and angiogenesis induced by TNF alpha in chicken chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) .
In conclusion , FAS - 1377 G - - > A polymorphism may be associated with an increased risk of lymph node metastasis in Korean cervical cancer patients .
3 - Chloromethylthiochromone - 1 , 1 - dioxide was observed to be a potent inhibitor of Ehrlich ascites carcinoma growth and a moderate inhibitor of P - 388 lymphocytic leukemia growth at 10 mg / kg / day .
Both PLD1 - and PLD2 - mediated cell cycle distributions in stable cell lines revealed an increased fraction of cells in the S phase compared with control cells .
In patients with atherosclerotic vascular diseases , collateral vessels bypassing major arterial obstructions have frequently been observed .
PMN - triggered angiogenesis is also blocked by both local injection and daily i . p . administration of the Hyp salt in an interleukin - 8 - induced murine model .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , an endothelial cell - specific mitogen , can act in tumor - induced angiogenesis by binding to specific receptors on the surface of endothelial cells .
Multiple stages of malignant transformation of human endothelial cells modelled by co - expression of telomerase reverse transcriptase , SV40 T antigen and oncogenic N - ras .
Here we report that the distal region of the hepatoma type II hexokinase promoter displays consensus motifs for hypoxia - inducible factor ( HIF - 1 ) that overlap E - box sequences known to be related in other gene promoters to glucose response .
Fluorescein angiograms were reviewed retrospectively to identify juxtafoveal CNV .
In the immunohistochemical analysis of EGFR and TGF - alpha and Ki67 index , a significant increase was observed in Ca ex - PA , especially with adenocarcinoma , compared with PA and sialadenitis .
Looking for mechanisms linking Brn - 3a to carcinogenesis , we discuss the role of this transcription factor in influencing Bcl - 2 / p53 antagonism and Bcl - 2 / VEGF induction of tumor angiogenesis , concluding this review with a proposal for the oncogenic nature of Brn - 3a .
Based on ChIP analysis , the transcriptional regulation of BMP - 2 gene by NF - kappaB may be partially attributed to binding to kappab site on the BMP - 2 promoter .
Pathological analysis indicated that generated tumors corresponded to well - differentiated fibrosarcomas with distinct and intersecting bundles and spindle cells .
METHODS AND RESULTS : Quiescent VEGFR2 displays endosomal localization and colocalization with the Rab5a GTPase , an early endosome fusion regulator .
A preponderance of work has been focused on the molecular mechanisms underlying this effect , with the expectation that a mechanistic understanding may lead to novel therapeutic approaches .
Organ biodistribution studies revealed that galectin - 3C localized in the liver , kidneys , and spleen but not in the heart or lungs .
Additionally , this sequence shares some homology with the DNA binding domain of GCN4 and c - jun protein .
Platelet - derived endothelial cell growth - factor ( PD - ECGF ) is similar to the pyrimidine enzyme thymidine phosphorylase ( TP ) .
Pretreatment IL levels were not associated with outcome .
Insufficient angiogenesis occurs in diseases such as coronary artery disease , stroke and chronic wounds .
This is the largest study to date evaluating COX - 2 inhibitors as adjunctive therapy in haemophilia and suggests that these agents may be an important adjunctive therapy in the management of haemophilia .
Since the intrinsic resistance of prostate carcinoma likely reflects a low susceptibility to drug - induced apoptosis , in this study we explored the possibility of sensitizing prostate carcinoma cells to apoptosis by combination of TRAIL with camptothecins .
Angiogenesis plays an important role in many types of cancer .
The E - cadherin / alpha - , beta - , gamma - catenin complex has an invasion - suppressor function as evidenced by transfections either with sense cDNA encoding these molecules or with antisense cDNA inhibiting their expression .
Effects of spironolactone on corneal allograft survival in the rat .
In addition to its role in embryonic development , the Hedgehog pathway has been shown to be an active participant in cancer development , progression , and metastasis .
p - XSC also decreases Akt phosphorylation as well as Akt - specific phosphorylation of the AR .
Inhibition of the endothelial cell autocrine angiotensin system , with either the angiotensin - converting enzyme inhibitor lisinopril or the angiotensin II receptor antagonist sar1 , ile8 - angiotensin II , leads to increased endothelial cell migration and urokinase - like plasminogen activator ( u - PA ) activity ( Bell , L . , and J . A . Madri . 1990 . Am . J . Pathol . 137 : 7 - 12 ) .
Due to space limitations , we can not review the molecular control of CNS angiogenesis , but refer the reader to other chapters in this book and to recent publications on the assembly of the vasculature ( 1 , 2 ) .
DLC1 protein level is elevated in more than 90 % of human breast tumors .
Reduced PTEN expression was inversely correlated to the expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen and to the activation of Erk1 , 2 , but not of Akt .
Binding of factor VIIa ( FVIIa ) to its cellular receptor tissue factor ( TF ) was previously shown to induce various intracellular signaling events , which were thought to be responsible for TF - mediated biologic effects , including angiogenesis , tumor metastasis , and restenosis .
Transfection with TSP - 1 and purified TSP - 1 added to NIH3T3 cells did not alter the protein levels of alpha - SMA and desmin but significantly inhibited matrix metalloprotease - 2 activity .
BAG - 1 is expressed ubiquitously in human cells as three major isoforms of 50 kDa ( BAG - 1L ) , 46 kDa ( BAG - 1M ) and 36 kDa ( BAG - 1S ) from a single mRNA .
Bone destruction is primarily mediated by osteoclastic bone resorption , and cancer cells stimulate the formation and activation of osteoclasts next to metastatic foci .
However , the role of the TSH - R - related cAMP pathway alterations in thyroid transformation remains to be elucidated .
Ethanol exposure resulted in reduced VEGF - induced cord formation on collagen and reduced capillary network structure on Matrigel in vitro .
When wound healing assay was used to assess in vitro tumor cell migration , hypoxia conditioning for 1 h enhanced B16F10 cell migration .
CD40 expression on human lung cancer correlates with metastatic spread .
As shown previously , ectopic expression of Runx2 in the thymus leads to a preneoplastic state defined by an accumulation of cells with an immature phenotype and a low proliferative rate .
Short pigment epithelial - derived factor - derived peptide inhibits angiogenesis and tumor growth .
VEGF - A ( 165 ) mainly contributes to increased serum VEGF levels and may serve as a diagnostic tool in advanced - stage neuroblastoma .
Airway angiogenesis and microvascular remodeling are known features of bronchial asthma , but the mechanisms of these structural alterations are just beginning to be elucidated .
These two somewhat diametrically opposed roles will be discussed in light of new data emerging from various fields which converge on perlecan as a key regulator of cell growth and angiogenesis .
While the role of protein tyrosine kinases has been examined extensively in human breast tumorigenesis , the role of PTPases in this process is virtually unknown .
To explore the potential of chemotherapy directed at the tyrosine kinase of p185neu , we have found that emodin ( 3 - methyl - 1 , 6 , 8 - trihydroxyanthraquinone ) , a tyrosine kinase inhibitor , suppresses autophosphorylation and transphosphorylation activities of HER - 2 / neu tyrosine kinase , resulting in tyrosine hypophosphorylation of p185neu in HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells .
Anti - metastasis effects of gallic acid on gastric cancer cells involves inhibition of NF - kappaB activity and downregulation of PI3K / AKT / small GTPase signals .
PD98059 , a specific MAPK / ERK kinase ( MEK ) 1 inhibitor , did not affect the induction of ets - 1 mRNA , whereas SB203580 , a specific p38 inhibitor , almost completely abrogated its induction .
Functional studies by ectopically constitutive expression of Dss1 in JB6 Cl 41 - 5a preneoplastic cells strongly increased focus formation and proliferation of these cells and enhanced efficiency of neoplastic transformation of the cells in soft agar .
However , how survivin couples to the cell death machinery has remained elusive , and the relevant cellular targets of survivin antagonists have not been completely elucidated .
The host and tumor sensitivities to insulin are critical for such treatments , which aim to improve patient nutrition .
Group 2 was treated by Enoxaparine Na , group 3 received HBO therapy , and group 4 was given both enoxaparine Na and HBO treatment .
Radiation significantly affected DMBA - associated vascular volume and permeability changes during carcinogenesis .
Thymosin beta - 4 ( TB4 ) is an actin - sequestering protein to control cytoskeletal reorganization .
Heparin immobilized porous PLGA microspheres for angiogenic growth factor delivery .
Moreover , the M2 - PK - binding peptide aptamers also reduced the proliferation rate of human U - 2 OS osteosarcoma cells .
Following i . v . infusion with [ 13C ] alanine , [ 13C ] lactate and glutamate , evidence of oxidation via the TCA cycle , were observed in H4 tumors .
Relationship of cellular immunity , cytokines and CRP with clinical course in breast cancer patients with endocrine - dependent distant metastases treated with immunotherapy .
The aim of this study was to examine immunohistochemical expression of these adhesion molecules , focusing on early gastric carcinomas , and to investigate differences between differentiated and undifferentiated gastric cancer at the early phase of carcinogenesis .
Lysates of cells from the granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor ( GM - CSF ) - dependent myeloid leukemic cell line TF1 were separated into high molecular weight ( HMW ) pellets of intact DNA and supernatants of fragmented low MW ( LMW ) DNA , and the DNA purified from these fractions was quantified .
Ki - 67 labeling index ( LI ) was calculated , based on Ki - 67 antigen immunostaining , as a proliferative marker .
We have previously mapped phosphorylation sites near the carboxy terminus of the E1B - 55kDa protein at Ser - 490 and Ser - 491 , which lie within casein kinase II consensus sequences .
To analyze the structure - function relationship for the v - fos protein , we constructed in - frame insertion and deletion mutants of the v - fos gene carried by FBJ - MuSV , and expressed them in chicken primary cells using retrovirus vectors .
They establish cyclin D1 as a proto - oncogene whose activity appears to depend on a specific cell type as well as on a specific cooperating partner and link disturbances in the regulation of cell cycle progression to the development of human malignancies .
Angiogenesis , new blood vessel formation , is a multistep process , precisely regulated by pro - angiogenic cytokines , which stimulate endothelial cells to migrate , proliferate and differentiate to form new capillary microvessels .
To analyze the role of ADAM - 9 for the interaction between melanoma cells and stromal fibroblasts , we produced the recombinant disintegrin - like and cysteine - rich domain of ADAM - 9 ( DC - 9 ) .
CONCLUSIONS / SIGNIFICANCE : GK rat islets have increased mRNA expression of markers of early islet endothelial cell activation , possibly triggered by several metabolic factors , and also some defense mechanisms .
Expression of 14 - 3 - 3 final sigma ( final sigma ) is induced in response to DNA damage , and causes cells to arrest in G ( 2 ) .
[ Correlation between expression of vascular endothelial growth factor - C in tumor - associated macrophages and lymphatic metastasis in oral cancer ] .
TC - PTP PTPase expression was only slightly increased in these neu transformed cells , and no expression of CD45 PTPase was observed .
Myocardial ischemia both acute and chronic has been clearly shown to stimulate angiogenesis in many experimental models .
( c ) 2010 American Cancer Society .
Targeting SREBP could become a novel approach in fighting diseases involving abnormal ECs migration .
Effects of morphological patterning on endothelial cell migration .
KISS1 is a metastasis suppressor gene that is lost in several malignancies , including bladder cancer .
Both models yield significantly reduced placental weights and an asymmetrically growth - restricted fetus , and display altered maternal hormone concentrations , indicative of an impaired trophoblast capacity .
Promoting angiogenesis via manipulation of VEGF responsiveness with notch signaling .
TGF - beta effects on angiogenesis , stroma formation , and immune function suggest its possible involvement in tumor progression .
We report that neuronal death resulting from focal cerebral ischaemia ( middle cerebral artery occlusion , 24 h ) is significantly inhibited ( by 50 % ) in rats injected with a recombinant IL - 1 receptor antagonist ( IL - 1ra , 10 micrograms , icv 30 min before and 10 min after ischaemia ) .
Angiogenesis inhibitors : current strategies and future prospects .
This reduction disappeared with increasing distance from the tumor .
With a median follow - up of 8 . 4 months , the overall best response rate is 37 % ( 2 complete clinical response / complete clinical response unconfirmed and 9 partial response ) , with 22 % achieving stable disease .
The ectodomains and heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycan chains of syndecans can also act as receptors / co - receptors for some bacterial and viral pathogens , mediating infection .
We tested this possibility with in vitro assays using human endothelial cells , as well as in a rodent hindlimb ischemia model .
Subsequently this activity was separated into TGFbeta and TGFalpha an EGF receptor ligand .
Experimental results and theoretical calculations suggest that in glucose - containing medium the Na + transport increases from 0 . 75 to 1 . 78 pmol / hour per cell .
Cells stably transformed by the Src oncogene tyrosine kinase were examined for STAT protein activation .
Hypoxia - activated functional HIF - 1 protein binds to hypoxia - responsive elements ( HRE ) in the enhancers of several genes including VEGF , the major player in angiogenesis , and initiates their mRNA expression .
We believe that this group of RNAs , which map antisense to the ICP4 homolog gene , are latency - associated transcripts of MDV .
Circulating endothelial cells in malignant disease .
Intensity and patterns of localization in blood vessels was consistent in various tissues , but varied among different regions of the vascular bed .
Different antiangiogenic therapeutics have been developed to improve tumor control through vascular - targeting agents ( VTA ) .
Cell invasion and apoptosis assays were also performed .
NaF reduced the glucose consumption at early stage , possibly by inhibition of glycolysis , whereas cisplatin and etoposide reduced the glucose consumption at later stage , suggesting that early decline of glucose consumption is rather specific to NaF .
DESIGN : Paraffin - embedded sections of 37 breast carcinomas were immunostained for survivin , bcl - 2 , bcl - x , and bax .
Here we show that GR activation leads to both the rapid induction of MAPK phosphatase - 1 ( MKP - 1 ) mRNA and its sustained expression .
There is evidence for the implication of ARF in angiogenesis .
Brick1 is an essential regulator of actin cytoskeleton required for embryonic development and cell transformation .
The restriction of BRCA1 promoter region hypermethylation to breast and ovarian cancer is consistent with a pathogenetic role of BRCA1 promoter methylation in these tumours .
The UV - irradiated cells demonstrated enhanced tumorigenicity and metastatic potential in nude mice .
In the current report , we tested the sensitivity of the c - myc - overexpressing cells ( Rat 6 / c - myc ) to two additional chemicals : 5 - azacytidine and MnSO4 .
Univariate and multivariate analyses revealed high PLD as the only independent variable predictive of neck metastasis .
Inhibitors of angiogenesis hold potential in the treatment of cancer and other diseases where the disease is caused or maintained by the inappropriate growth of blood vessels .
Coagulation function in patients with pancreatic carcinoma .
Systemic treatment with L - NAME inhibited growth of adenocarcinoma significantly but was accompanied by impaired renal function .
We also examined cell proliferation , migration , and anti - apoptotic activity in response to stromal cell - derived factor ( SDF ) - 1alpha and evaluated SDF - 1alpha / CXCR4 signaling pathways .
In oral cancers , cytoplasmic BAG - 1 overexpression is a marker of poor prognosis .
Colon cancer overexpresses insulin - like growth factor 1 ( IGF1 ) and insulin - like growth factor 1 receptor ( IGF1 - R ) , as compared with normal or adenomatous mucosa , and it has been postulated that colorectal cancer cells depend on the IGF1 / IGF1 - R pathway for their growth and progression .
The simian virus 40 ( SV40 ) large tumor ( T ) antigen is sufficient to transform cells in cultures and induce tumors in experimental animals .
At necropsy , all macroscopic colonic tumors were identified and histologically classified as dysplasia or adenocarcinoma .
The impact of elevated VEGF expression on the course of chronic myeloid leukaemia is unknown .
Therefore , this enhancing effect does not result from an idiosyncrasy of the EBV genome but rather reflects a general property of these miRNAs .
Positron emission tomography ( PET ) imaging has become a useful tool for assessing early biologic response to cancer therapy and may be particularly useful in the development of new cancer therapeutics .
The cell autonomous function of p53 in melanocytes is not well described , however , the balance of the evidence suggests that p53 is an effective tumor suppressor and the myriad of mechanisms by which the p53 pathway may be dysregulated in tumors attests to it importance as a tumor suppressor .
VTAs inhibit specific factors required to induce and direct the angiogenic process , with major activity against small tumor masses and at the tumor periphery , encompassing monoclonal antibodies and small molecules inhibitors of the tyrosine kinase domain of the VEGF receptor .
Delayed addition of GM - CSF , but not FBS , permitted partial rescue of the cells , inhibiting increasing rates of accumulation of fragmented DNA .
After successive growth in vitro for longer than one month which was scarcely observed with the erythrophores , the vast majority of such transformants began to differentiate into erythrophores and ceased proliferation spontaneously .
The stimulatory effect of mast cells on migration is specific for capillary endothelial cells .
The central region that is sufficient for these activities includes the evolutionarily highly conserved region among human , mouse and chicken c - fos proteins .
METHODS : Transplant tumor model was induced by subcutaneous inoculation of 2 x 10 ( 6 ) Lewis lung cancer ( LLC ) cells into the back of C57BL / 6 mice .
The E1B - 55kDa product has been shown to exhibit intrinsic transcriptional repression activity when localized to promoters , such as by fusion with the GAL4 DNA - binding domain , even in the absence of p53 .
These changes should diminish apoptosis activity in the tumor cells .
Interleukin - 8 ( IL - 8 ) is known to be a pro - inflammatory and pro - angiogenic cytokine , and IL - 8 has been reported to be associated with tumor progression , prognosis and survival in several types of cancers .
This review will focus on perlecan - growth factor interactions and describe recent advances in our understanding of this highly conserved proteoglycan during development , cancer growth , and angiogenesis .
30 and 50 micrograms / ml of U - 995 , when added to TNF alpha - induced angiogenesis caused discontinuous and disrupted blood vessels .
Tumours from younger patients had a higher grade of angiogenesis ( P = 0 . 05 ) .
However , unlike tumor invasion , trophoblast invasion of the uterus is stringently controlled in situ by local molecules such as transforming growth factor ( TGF ) beta .
The quaternary benzo [ c ] phenanthridine alkaloid sanguinarine inhibits the proliferation of cancerous cells from different origins , including lung , breast , pancreatic and colon , but nothing is known of its effects on osteosarcoma , a primary malignant bone tumour .
When the metastatic lung carcinomas were subtyped , TTF - 1 staining was noted in 11 of 11 ( 100 % ) adenocarcinomas , in 6 of 7 ( 86 % ) small - cell carcinomas , in 15 of 19 ( 79 % ) large - cell carcinomas , and in none of 3 ( 0 % ) squamous cell carcinomas .
Thus , tumors behave like wounds that fail to heal .
The interval between primary surgery and the appearance of gastric cancer in the remnant stomach was significantly shorter in the RSCM group than in the RSCB group .
Despite an increase in the activation of these signal transducers , the mammary gland of females expressing exogenous Tsg101 developed normally throughout the reproductive cycle .
For a video summary of this article , see the PaperFlick file available with the online Supplemental Data .
METHODS : Forty - one patients ( 41 eyes ) with a clinical diagnosis of exudative ARMD with PED underwent simultaneous fluorescein and indocyanine green angiography , also under high ( 10 degrees ) magnification .
p53 and PCNA status do not appear to influence topo I expression , and topo I has no apparent association with the acquisition of a metastatic phenotype .
In addition , PTEN promoter methylation appeared more frequently in multiple CCMs , including familial cases ( 46 . 7 % ) , than that in single - lesioned CCMs ( 11 . 8 % ; P < 0 . 05 ) .
Untransformed CEF and CEF transformed with Rous sarcoma virus also migrated to 9E3 / CEF4 protein , as measured by Boyden single - membrane analysis .
To examine the mechanisms by which insulin regulates VEGF expression , human retinal pigment epithelial ( RPE ) cells were exposed to insulin , and VEGF mRNA levels were quantified with RNase protection assays ( RPAs ) .
The development of the corpus luteum ( CL ) , which involves angiogenesis , is essential for the establishment of early pregnancy .
CONCLUSIONS : PDT can reduce the clinical signs of activity , such as choroidal hyperpermeability or neurosensorial retinal detachment , in patients affected by chronic CSC .
The antisense oligomers complementary to the ER suppressed proliferation and transformed phenotypes of K12V cells .
Host - derived angiopoietin - 2 affects early stages of tumor development and vessel maturation but is dispensable for later stages of tumor growth .
Experimental flaps were found to be perfused fully with fluorescein and lead oxide ; control fat pads were found not to be perfused .
Coexpression of the human Met receptor and its ligand , hepatocyte growth factor / scatter factor ( HGF / SF ) , in NIH 3T3 fibroblasts causes the cells to become tumorigenic in nude mice .
The dual function of Id - 1 , inhibition of differentiation , and stimulation of cell proliferation , might be interdependent , as cell differentiation is generally coupled with the exit from the cell cycle .
Factors including thrombin and fibrin , which are downstream of the coagulation cascade activated by TF , also contribute to atherosclerosis .
Hamsters were treated with either radiation , DMBA , radiation + DMBA , or no treatment .
These effects translated into a 2 . 2 - to 229 . 0 - fold increase in the cytotoxic activity of ara - C against clonogenic leukemic cells after GM - CSF or IL - 3 pretreatment .
This activation correlated with induction of HIF - 1alpha expression and DNA binding activity which was blocked by the p38 inhibitor SB203580 .
Circulating endothelial cells and their precursors declined and remained low in responders , whereas plasma vascular endothelial growth factor trended to decline in responding patients but increase in nonresponders .
G ( i ) protein , phosphatidylinositol - 3 kinase ( PI3K ) , p38 mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) , cytosolic phospholipase A ( 2 ) and urokinase type plasminogen activator ( uPA ) are required for LPA - induced cells invasion .
Under these conditions , 2 - DG drastically enhanced the radiation - induced cell death of spheroids ( by 2 - 3 folds ) ; while a 40 % increase was observed in monolayer cells .
Docetaxel has proved to be a first line treatment choice .
Prior to the appearances of frank neoplasms , volumetric changes in DMBA only and radiation only groups were similar , while volume changes in DMBA + radiation groups increased slowly to a peak later than in other groups and then declined steadily to levels similar to the radiation only group .
Smad1 / 5 / 8 phosphorylation was measured by Western blot analysis .
RESULTS : The MMP / TIMP profile defined by hierarchical cluster analysis of the immunohistochemical score identifies a distinct group of colorectal cancers with poor prognosis ( log - rank test , 12 . 22 , P = 0 . 0005 ) .
As TGF - beta is a potent negative growth regulator of hematopoietic cells , investigations were undertaken to determine whether inactivation of the receptor by microsatellite alteration might be involved in the progression of CML .
PTEN protein expression paralleled with its mRNA expression ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
The enhancing factors are proteins related to the family of the transforming growth factors ( TGFs ) by their molecular weight ( about 20 kd ) , their heat and acid resistance , and their sensitivity to dithiothreitol .
Trib1 and Evi1 cooperate with Hoxa and Meis1 in myeloid leukemogenesis .
The expressions of 14 - 3 - 3zeta and beta - catenin were detected by western blotting , double labeling immunofluorescence , confocal laser scanning microscopy and immunohistochemistry .
Thrombin greatly potentiates vascular endothelial growth factor - ( VEGF - ) induced endothelial cell proliferation .
Interestingly , FRTL - 5 - RhoA QL cells express less Tg and TTF - 1 than wild - type FRTL - 5 ( FRTL - 5 - vector ) or FRTL - 5 - RhoA N19 , suggesting a loss at the differentiation stage .
On strips of all widths , ECs tended to migrate in the direction of strips .
Receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) analysis gave 0 . 83 and 0 . 43 ROC area values for urine IL - 8 / Cr and serum IL - 8 , respectively .
TS expression of the primary oral cancer cells in the group with lymph node metastasis was higher than that of those without .
Hypoxia - inducible factor 1 activation by aerobic glycolysis implicates the Warburg effect in carcinogenesis .
Furthermore , both PLD1 and PLD2 transformants , but not vector - transfectants , induced undifferentiated sarcoma when transplanted into nude mice .
We defined the role of c - Myc in cancer cell sensitivity to vinblastine ( VLB ) using human colon cancer cells : LoVo wild - type or transfected with a plasmid containing the human c - myc gene in antisense orientation ( LoVo - mycANS ) .
An earlier study showed that thrombospondin is expressed in benign prostatic hyperplasia ( BPH ) and high - grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia ( PIN ) but is absent in prostate cancer .
Effect of thalidomide affecting VEGF secretion , cell migration , adhesion and capillary tube formation of human endothelial EA . hy 926 cells .
Overexpression of CYR61 , CTGF , WISP - 1 , and NOV occurred in 48 % ( 32 of 66 ) , 58 % ( 38 of 66 ) , 36 % ( 24 of 66 ) , and 15 % ( 10 of 66 ) of primary gliomas , respectively .
The N - myc proto - oncogene encodes a transcription factor which regulates cell growth and differentiation .
Hepatectomy was performed , and the patient is alive and free of disease 1 year postsurgery .
Proof of principle of the combined diagnosis / treatment system design for performing dye - enhanced photocoagulation ( DEP ) in the clinical setting and determination of the minimum DEP laser energy needed to close CNV FVs was made in 11 AMD patients requiring treatment of CNV , but for whom other treatment was not appropriate .
Lewis lung carcinomas in mice by up to 65 % .
Thus , our results from differential proteome analysis presented here report for the first time a role for SET in Galpha ( 12 ) - mediated signaling pathways and a role for Galpha ( 12 ) in the regulation of the leukemia - associated SET - protein expression .
Although in vivo studies have shown that such inhibition stems from complex interactions of immune cells and the production of IFN - gamma and other downstream angiostatic chemokines , the mechanisms involved are still poorly defined .
Enhanced IGF - 1 expression improves smooth muscle cell engraftment after cell transplantation .
However , a statistically significant correlation was found between the surface expression of CD40 and the metastatic spread of the tumor .
Bovine papillomavirus E7 transformation function correlates with cellular p600 protein binding .
In this study , we investigated the effect of artemisinin on tumor growth , lymphangiogenesis , metastasis and survival in mouse Lewis lung carcinoma ( LLC ) models .
Inhibition of tumor vascular development has a direct effect on the growth and progression of the tumor .
Under specific conditions , casein could be used as an exogenous substrate as well .
High - grade clear cell renal cell carcinoma has a higher angiogenic activity than low - grade renal cell carcinoma based on histomorphological quantification and qRT - PCR mRNA expression profile .
This difference in invasiveness was not caused by differences in gelatinase production , which was constant within each group of transfectants .
We assessed the effects of these mutations on the ability of the v - fos protein to transform chicken embryo fibroblasts and to stimulate cellular proliferation of chicken neuroretinal cells .
Forced expression of SEMA3F , but not SEMA3B in ovarian cancer cells , significantly inhibited endothelial cell tube formation .
IL - 18 , originally identified as interferon - gamma inducing factor ( IGIF ) , is related to the IL - 1 family in terms of its structure as well as its processing , receptor , signal transduction pathway and pro - inflammatory properties .
In conclusion , this study identifies new functional properties for CD154 , which are potentially relevant for the growth and dissemination of renal carcinoma cells .
Ectopic overexpression of junB induced transformation of revertant EMS - 1 - 19 , but failed to transform Rat - 1 cells .
We investigated here whether 6 popular antitumor compounds modify the cytotoxic activity of NaF against human squamous cell carcinoma ( HSC - 2 ) and human promyelocytic leukemia ( HL - 60 ) cell lines .
It significantly prolongs median survival of patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) but the response is disease - stabilizing and cytostatic rather than one of tumor regression .
Ex vivo cultures from invasive tumors or metastases produced cells that were homogeneously E - cadherin - positive and noninvasive in vitro .
We examined the effect of distraction rate on blood vessel growth in intramembraneous ossification after vertical distraction osteogenesis in the human mandible .
Inhibition of Dll4 - mediated signaling induces proliferation of immature vessels and results in poor tissue perfusion .
With regard to differentiation , hypoxic cells lost their neuronal / neuroendocrine features and gained marker gene expression associated with an immature , neural crest - like phenotype .
The recent demonstration that VEGF signaling is modulated by the Notch signaling pathway , however , suggests that inhibiting Notch signaling may enhance regional neovascularization , by altering the responsiveness of local endothelial cells to angiogenic stimuli .
CONCLUSIONS : The combination of bevacizumab and irinotecan is safe and has excellent activity even in this relapsed , heavily pretreated population of patients with high - grade malignant glioma , most of whom would not be candidates for clinical trials .
Also , rk - 2 diminished the expression of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 in the mouse lung which induces tumor metastasis and angiogenesis .
New functions of epidermal growth factor : stimulation of capillary endothelial cell migration and matrix dependent proliferation .
In addition , filopodia formation , a feature of motile cells , was inhibited in PECAM - 1 - null endothelial cells as well as in human endothelial cells treated with either anti - PECAM - 1 antibody or PECAM - 1 siRNA .
The breast epithelium comprises cells at different stages of differentiation , including stem cells , progenitor cells , and more differentiated epithelial and myoepithelial cells .
After 48 h in culture , DR antigen expression was substantially increased , but no significant changes were observed in methylation of the DR alpha locus or in the amount of DR mRNA which was present .
This review summarizes the current state of the art concerning the involvement of aberrant Pten function in the development of different biologic features of malignant gliomas , such as loss of cell - cycle control and uncontrolled cell proliferation , escape from apoptosis , brain invasion , and aberrant neoangiogenesis .
There was also an up - regulation of Bax , which altered the Bax : Bcl - 2 ratio , which may be responsible for mitochondrial depolarization reported to be involved prior to the induction of apoptosis .
CONCLUSIONS : Angiostatin and thalidomide inhibit tumor growth , angiogenesis , and induce apoptosis in this xenograft model of cervical cancer .
As reported previously ( Namba et al . , 1985 ; Namba , 1985 ) , normal human fibroblasts were transformed into immortal cells with abnormal karyotypes by Co - 60 gamma - ray irradiation .
Angiogenesis defines the many steps involved in the growth and migration of endothelial cell - derived blood vessels .
Normal cells contain suppressor gene ( s ) which safeguard these cells against transformation by the product of the transforming Ha - ras - 1 oncogene .
To determine how p18 and p27 genetically interact with Men1 , the tumor suppressor gene mutated in familial MEN1 , we characterized p18 - Men1 and p27 - Men1 double mutant mice .
The goals of this study were to determine the mRNA and protein expressions of KISS1 and MMP - 9 in NSCLC and their relations to metastasis and prognosis .
IL - 17 plays an important role in gut homeostasis .
At this time , the cells ' growth is arrested at very high density , and no differentiated morphologic characteristics are observed .
Dopamine regulates phosphorylation of VEGF receptor 2 by engaging Src - homology - 2 - domain - containing protein tyrosine phosphatase 2 .
The mice that received Hoxa9 / Meis1 - transduced bone marrow cells developed acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) , and Trib1 , Evi1 , Ahi1 , Raralpha , Pitpnb , and AK039950 were identified as candidate cooperative genes located near common retroviral integration sites .
More than 50 % of the tumor cells coexpressed vimentin and keratin .
Matrix metalloproteinase activity and immunohistochemical profile of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 during human dermal wound healing .
Because islet inflammation may originate from endothelial cells , we assessed the expression of selected genes involved in endothelial cell activation in islets from a spontaneous model of type 2 diabetes , the Goto - Kakizaki ( GK ) rat .
The absence of functional von Hippel - Lindau ( VHL ) tumor suppressor gene leads to the development of neoplasias characteristic of VHL disease , including renal cell carcinoma ( RCC ) .
Notably , the activation of BMPRII by BMP - 2 is required for modulation of Smad activation by NF - kappaB in PC cells .
These findings indicate that TS and CD82 may be of great value in assessing lymph node metastasis of OSCC , and could be taken as new targets for therapy of metastatic OSCC .
We further show that in extracts from caspase - 3 - deficient MCF - 7 cells , procaspase - 9 processing is strongly impaired after stimulation with either cytochrome c or recombinant caspase - 8 .
The rats were divided into 4 groups .
Simvastatin induces apoptosis of B - CLL cells by activation of mitochondrial caspase 9 .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) in seizures : a double - edged sword .
GM - CSF and IL - 2 vaccine therapy and pretreatment with gammaIFN represent effective strategies in reducing hepatic tumor .
Two microsatellite regions found altered in RER + colon cancers were analyzed to establish if these sequences were aberrant in CML .
The field is currently in ascendance due to two factors .
Overexpression of Glut - 1 glucose transporter in human breast cancer .
Collectively , our results provide strong biochemical and genetic evidence of a central role for alpha2beta1 integrin in experimental and developmental angiogenesis .
Inhibition of this pathway may provide clinical benefits to cancer patients .
Intraperitoneal administration of 2G7 resulted in a marked increase in mouse spleen NK cell activity .
TUNEL assay was used to assess apoptosis .
Inhibition of the autocrine angiotensin system with the converting - enzyme inhibitor or the receptor antagonist also leads to increased expression of the proto - oncogene c - src : pp60c - src mRNA increased 7 - 11 - fold , c - src protein 3 - fold , and c - src kinase activity 2 - 3 - fold .
These results suggest that A5 - 1 will be a potent inhibitor of neovascularization .
CONCLUSION : Our results might support the idea that hyperfibrinogenemia can augment lymphatic and hematogeneous metastasis of advanced gastric cancer , which is major determinant of the prognosis in T2 gastric cancer .
SVLT mutants , defective either in the Rb binding site , near the N - terminal end , in a region that affects binding to p53 , or in the nuclear transport signal , were also employed to determine whether the interference was especially dependent on these functional domains .
In contrast VEGF - B was not regulated by VHL despite clear up - regulation in vivo .
Then , we examined the role of two major downstream molecules of Crk , Rac1 and Rap1 .
The truncated fos protein that contains only part of the central region is not phosphorylated in chicken embryo fibroblasts , indicating that phosphorylation of the fos protein is not necessary for the transforming activity .
By using immunohistochemistry , Western blot , and real - time PCR the expression patterns of TSP - 1 , TSP - 2 , CD36 , CD47 , MMP - 2 , and MMP - 9 were investigated in normal rat prostate tissue and five malignant Dunning sublines tissue .
METHODS : NF - kappaB inhibition was achieved by IkappaBalpha super - repressor adenoviral vector and activation was monitored by EMSA and reporter assays .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : We analyzed antigenicity , hydrophilicity , and charge distribution of the angioinhibitory epitope ( the 34 - mer ) and designed three peptides covering its COOH terminus , P14 , P18 , and P23 .
The combination diagnosis / treatment device should be useful in optimizing FV treatment and in refining and evaluating the efficacy of DEP in future clinical trials .
These findings are potentially clinically relevant , because HMGA2 expression is reported to be upregulated in a number of human cancers as telomere maintenance is essential for tumorigenesis .
Some vitamins like beta - carotene , retinoic acid , alpha - tocopheryl succinate , and vitamin D also regulate the expressions of certain oncogenes and cellular genes .
We investigated a prophylactically thyroidectomized MEN II A population to determine whether the highly specific and sensitive tumor marker calcitonin correlates with tumor spread .
Perlecan is a ubiquitous pericellular proteoglycan ideally placed to mediate cell signaling events controlling migration , proliferation , and differentiation .
We have previously reported that dihydroartemisinin is found to have a potent ability in influencing lymphatic endothelial cell migration and tube formation .
p53 up - regulation and p53 - mediated proliferation arrest and apoptosis were substantiated using immunohistochemistry , with activation of both the intrinsic and the extrinsic apoptotic pathways .
Small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors offer the potential to inhibit more than one kinase and impede tumor growth by multiple mechanisms .
N - myc augments death and attenuates protective effects of Bcl - 2 in trophically stressed neuroblastoma cells .
Consistent with this hypothesis , co - injection of VPF / VEGF together with OPN resulted in rapid cleavage of OPN by endogenous thrombin .
Inhibition of ethanol metabolism by 4 - methylpyrazole partially abrogated the effect of ethanol on endothelial cell cord formation .
Protection from experimental ocular herpetic keratitis by a heat - killed virus vaccine .
Rat - 1 cells which had been transformed with the activated Ha - ras - 1 gene from human EJ bladder carcinoma cells were fused with diploid embryonic rat fibroblasts .
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE : Cerebral cavernous malformations ( CCMs ) are prevalent cerebral vascular lesions involving aberrant angiogenesis .
In conclusion , aspirin and nimesulide could inhibit cell proliferation and induce apoptosis in esophageal squamous carcinoma cells .
There was positive correlation between PTEN mRNA expression and LOH of microsatellites in advanced gastric carcinomas .
Here we show that IL - 12 activates an anti - angiogenic program in Con A - activated mouse spleen cells ( activated spc ) or human PBMC ( activated PBMC ) .
Since congenital neutropenia and SDS are inherited forms of bone marrow failure , G - CSF may accelerate the propensity for MDS / AML in the genetically altered stem and progenitor cells , especially in those with G - CSF receptor and ras mutations ( 82 % and 50 % of patients who transform , respectively ) .
There was , furthermore , no correlation between the heterogeneity of nm23 - H1 gene product expression and the patients survival .
The tumor - suppressive action of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS in subcutaneous human lung tumor A549 xenograft correlated with a reduced number of capillary vessels in tumors .
GM - CSF or IL - 2 vaccines or gammaIFN decreased tumor nodules significantly ( GM - CSF 13 + / - 4 , IL - 2 14 + / - 6 vs . control 75 + / - 24 , P < 0 . 001 ) .
Three patients developed deep vein thromboses and two heavily pretreated patients developed treatment - related acute myelogenous leukemia or myelodysplasia after 3 . 7 and 12 months of therapy .
METHODS : Using flow cytometry we evaluated 18 human lung cancer cell lines for the expression of different surface markers on lung cancers suggested to be possible prognostic parameters , including epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) , intercellular adhesion molecule 1 ( ICAM - 1 ) , Fas and CD40 .
However , it is clear that the Notch signaling pathway mediates its effects through intercellular contact between neighboring cells .
Met amplification and tumor progression in Cdkn2a - deficient melanocytes .
Therefore , we confirmed the key findings by replicating these experiments in human neuroblastoma SK - N - SH cells .
Instead , a translational regulation is suggested , since syndecan - 1 core protein synthesis was E - cadherin dependent .
Single conditional knockouts for Smad1 or Smad5 or mice homozygous null for Smad8 are viable and fertile .
In vitro assays have indicated that c - myc may be a target gene of c - Myb ; however , regulation of the resident chromosomal gene has not yet been demonstrated .
Fluroquinolone antibiotics such as ciprofloxacin , which can be administered p . o . , may have a profound effect in bladder cancer management .
Osteotomy fracture healing without the traction stimulus failed to induce a corresponding increase in these factors .
Chronic inflammation and cancer are intimately associated .
Downregulation of c - FLIP sensitizes DU145 prostate cancer cells to Fas - mediated apoptosis .
This usually involves screening of potential anti - angiogenic compounds on endothelial cells .
In 1997 , the PTEN gene ( phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 ) was identified as a tumor suppressor gene on the long arm of chromosome 10 .
p53 hot - spot mutants increase tumor vascularization via ROS - mediated activation of the HIF1 / VEGF - A pathway .
From these results , it was suggested that PPARgamma activation might suppress COX - 2 expression via the nuclear factor - kappaB pathway in the ovarian carcinoma cells and that low expression of PPARgamma and high expression of COX - 2 might be involved in carcinogenesis and progression of ovarian tumours .
Our results strongly suggest that estradiol has a critical role in the regulation of IL - 8 in normal human breast tissue and human breast cancer .
Further , we implemented a noninvasive molecular imaging technique to facilitate the assessment of the metastatic process .
CONCLUSIONS : Our promising results on the potential antitumor effects of hPNAS - 4 on ovarian cancer in vitro and in vivo may be explained , in part , by the induction of apoptosis and inhibition of angiogenesis .
The acquisition of the metastatic phenotype induced by UV - B could not be attributed to abnormalities in the p53 or MTS - 1 ( p16INK4 ) genes .
Gene expression signatures denoting WNT / TCF activation are associated with relapse to multiple organs in primary lung adenocarcinoma .
Expression of CD154 on renal cell carcinomas and effect on cell proliferation , motility and platelet - activating factor synthesis .
CONCLUSION : The present series supports the theory that opticin is produced by the non - pigmented CBE throughout adult life .
The Wilms ' tumor 1 ( WT1 ) gene is a tumor suppressor gene that encodes a zinc - finger transcription factor .
The characteristics of HPCs in PET described herein for the first time offer additional diagnostic criteria and may help especially to differentiate these tumors from meningiomas .
Furthermore , the expression of M2 - PK - binding peptide aptamers moderately reduced the growth of immortalized NIH3T3 cell populations by decelerating cell proliferation , but without affecting apoptotic cell death .
The effect of translocations on the cellular myc gene in Burkitt lymphomas .
We have investigated the expression of the CD40 - CD154 system in 24 primary cultures derived from renal cell carcinomas , its correlation with tumor stage and its potential functional significance .
Here we demonstrate that repetitive exposure to tobacco smoke promotes tumor development both in carcinogen - treated mice and in transgenic mice undergoing sporadic K - ras activation in lung epithelial cells .
METHODS : In this study , we screened the expression profile of AQP0 - 12 in breast cancer tissues and corresponding normal tissues by RT - PCR , Western blotting and immunohistochemistry .
The inhibiting mutants , including the Rb binding site mutant , were able to promote a higher state of Rb phosphorylation than that observed in either normal cells or cytoplasmic - SVLT transformants .
After acquiring and interpreting diagnostic angiograms and repositioning a patient in front of the device , feeder vessel DEP and treatment evaluation required 15 to 20 minutes .
Injection of VEGF - neutralizing antibodies over a 2 - week period completely blocked alinidine - stimulated angiogenesis .
To address this , the Severe Chronic Neutropenia International Registry ( SCNIR ) used its large database of chronic neutropenia patients treated with G - CSF to determine the incidence of malignant myeloid transformation in the two disorders , and its relationship to treatment and to other patient characteristics .
Microsatellite regions in the type II transforming growth factor - beta receptor ( TGF - beta RII ) gene appear to be targets for mutation in some cancers displaying microsatellite instability ( replication error phenotype , RER + ) .
Mutants of TEL that removed a binding site for the mSin3A corepressor but retained the ETS domain failed to repress stromelysin - 1 .
Reduced oxygen tension has been shown to increase VEGF production by induction of the transcription factor hypoxia inducible factor 1 alpha ( HIF - 1alpha ) .
Therefore , it is possible that loss of final sigma expression contributes to malignant transformation by impairing the G ( 2 ) cell cycle checkpoint function , thus allowing an accumulation of genetic defects .
Effect of U - 995 , a potent shark cartilage - derived angiogenesis inhibitor , on anti - angiogenesis and anti - tumor activities .
Western blot analyses showed an increase in levels of activated caspases ( caspase - 3 and - 7 ) and of cleaved poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase ( PARP ) by magnolol .
Correspondingly , Ang - 2 manipulatory therapies have been shown to exert protumorigenic as well as antitumorigenic effects .
These cells , but not control cells , showed altered growth properties and anchorage - independent growth in soft agar .
These results demonstrate the importance of specific oncogene interaction in myeloid leukemogenesis .
A feasibility study was carried out to develop the Ahn / Mustoe lapine wound model for systematic investigation of the effects of electrical stimulation on ischemic wound therapy .
Assays of electrophoretic mobility , DNA - binding specificity , and antigenicity indicated that Stat3 or a closely related STAT family member was constitutively activated by the Src oncoprotein .
Collectively , the experiments define the role of Ang - 2 during tumor angiogenesis and establish a better rationale for combination therapies involving Ang - 2 manipulatory therapies .
However , there is little information about their possible roles in non - small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) .
CONCLUSION : Abnormal E - cadherin expression is a possible marker of submucosal invasion in differentiated - type early gastric cancer and absent beta - catenin staining could be used as a predictor of lymph node metastasis in both types .
A p53 mutant , p53R172P , which is deficient for apoptosis but retains a partial cell cycle arrest function , delays tumor onset in mice .
The protein and water component of brain edema were indirectly quantitated .
These findings strongly support an enhanced role for this pathway in clear cell carcinomas by regulating angiogenesis and / or lymphangiogenesis .
Ectopic expression of Cdc25a prevented UV - induced S - phase arrest in keratinocytes lacking Erbb2 activity , demonstrating that maintenance of Cdc25a by Erbb2 suppresses cell cycle arrest .
Strikingly , 5 of 6 familial CCMs showed PTEN promoter methylation ( 83 . 3 % ) , which was significantly higher than in sporadic cases ( 9 . 4 % ; P < 0 . 001 ) .
The ability of LRP - 1 to regulate expression of the factors identified here suggests a role for LRP - 1 in determining blood vessel structure and in angiogenesis .
Both STX243 and STX140 were capable of retarding the growth of MDA - MB - 231 xenograft tumours ( 72 and 63 % , respectively ) , whereas no inhibition was observed for animals treated with 2 - MeOE2 .
Presence of 2 - DG ( 5 mM ) for 2 - 4 h inhibited the glucose usage and lactate production by 70 % in spheroids , while a 35 % reduction was observed in monolayer cells .
This down - regulation is accompanied by a rapid cleavage of Tie1 and binding of the cleaved Tie1 45 kDa endodomain to Tie2 .
The induction of elevated p53 levels was determined not to be due to virus - receptor interactions or HCMV late events .
Angiotensin II ( Ang II ) is a potent vasoconstrictor that increases concomitant with sFlt - 1 during pregnancy .
Hence orally active blockers of TNF - alpha that are safe , efficacious and inexpensive are urgently needed .
On the other hand , VEGF levels were not increased by LPS stimulation .
In both cases , regulation of syndecan - 1 occurred post - transcriptionally , since syndecan - 1 mRNA levels remained unchanged .
Thus , vimentin expression may be helpful in identifying a substantial subset of ER - independent breast carcinomas with poor prognostic indicators .
Administration of thalidomide at the concentration of 0 . 01 microM increased cell migration , while at 10 microM , it decreased cell migration .
While the response to most treatments was not affected by the VHL gene status , glucose deprivation was found to be much more cytotoxic for RCC cells lacking VHL gene function than for wtVHL - expressing cells .
This is primarily based on limited in vitro studies on tumor cells derived from transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder that revealed a dose - and time - dependent inhibition of cell growth by ciprofloxacin at concentrations that are easily attainable in the urine of patients .
Besides the wealth of data elucidating the functional roles of Pten , recent studies suggest a diagnostic significance of PTEN gene alterations as a molecular marker for poor prognosis in anaplastic astrocytomas and anaplastic oligodendrogliomas .
The formation of functional , mature blood vessels depends on the interaction between endothelial cells and pericytes .
RESULTS : We detected only wild - type nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 mRNA .
Furthermore , inhibition of PARP activity , but not of caspase activity , completely prevented magnolol - induced necrosis , suggesting the notion that it might be caused by depletion of intracellular ATP levels due to PARP activation .
Lactoferrin enhances Fas expression and apoptosis in the colon mucosa of azoxymethane - treated rats .
HYPOTHESIS : We speculate that there is a burst of angiogenesis of distant dormant micrometastases after surgery in approximately 20 % of premenopausal node - positive patients .
Significantly , phenotypic reversion of malignant cells via reexpression of HoxD10 , which is lost in malignant progression , significantly attenuated VEGF expression in a hypoxia - inducible factor 1alpha - independent fashion and reduced EC migration .
The use of juice , peel and oil have also been shown to possess anticancer activities , including interference with tumor cell proliferation , cell cycle , invasion and angiogenesis .
The mutant which retains only the central region of the v - fos protein ( Met111 - Ile206 ) have both activities , but the mutants which have deletions in this region , and one of the mutants that has a four amino acid insertion in it , lost both activities .
The expression of JUN , ERBB2 , MYC , cyclin D , PCNA , bFGF , VEGF and Hsp70 proteins revealed a positive correlation to lymph node involvement .
These findings advance our understanding of the functions of N - myc in neuroblastoma cells .
However , the frequency of the p . Val600Lys mutation was higher than in most other studies and comprised almost one - third of all BRAF mutations in our cohort ( 27 / 89 , 30 % ) .
Expression , regulation , and function of IGF - 1 , IGF - 1R , and IGF - 1 binding proteins in blood vessels .
These data provide evidence that adenosine could modulate the migration of colon cancer cells by an HIF - 1alpha / VEGF / IL - 8 - dependent mechanism and that caffeine has the potential to inhibit colon cancer cell growth .
These studies suggest that Hedgehog signaling regulates melanoma related vascular formation and function .
Despite considerable efforts in understanding the cellular mechanisms contributing to pancreatic cancer , the prognosis of this malignant disease is still extremely poor .
Cancer neoangiogenesis is often disordered and abnormal , with evidence of coexisting vascular endothelial dysfunction .
Our results suggest that the selective inhibition of NF - kappaB activation by NBD peptide may provide an effective approach for the treatment of highly metastatic OSCC .
RESULTS : The average fibrinogen levels in patients with pancreatic carcinoma , ( 476 . 21 + / - 142 . 05 ) mg / dl , were significantly higher than in patients with cholangiolithiasis , ( 403 . 28 + / - 126 . 41 ) mg / dl ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
In addition , activation of transforming growth factor beta ( TGF - beta ) by TSP - 1 plays a crucial role in the regulation of tumor progression .
BACKGROUND : Compound targeting histone deacetylase ( HDAC ) represents a new era in molecular cancer therapeutics .
RhoA activation promotes transformation and loss of thyroid cell differentiation interfering with thyroid transcription factor - 1 activity .
These results indicate that Hyp is a powerful anti - inflammatory compound with therapeutic potential , and they elucidate mechanistic keys .
c - MYC functions as a molecular switch to alter the response of human mammary epithelial cells to oncostatin M .
There was also a direct correlation between the presence of choroidal neovascularization and size of the PED ( P = 0 . 03 ) .
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of doxorubicin in Hct - 116 human colon carcinoma cells in order to clarify if a time / concentration range for optimal doxorubicin - induced apoptosis exists .
This analysis revealed a higher expression of vessel maturation and stabilisation factors ( placental growth factor , PDGFB1 , angiopoietin 1 ) in CC - RCC with high MVD , a group of CC - RCC highly enriched in low nuclear grade CC - RCC , with low ECP % .
Several such agents are currently in clinical trials , and many others are under development .
In humans with AMD , MCs accumulated in the subretinal space at sites of retinal degeneration and choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) .
Bevacizumab and irinotecan therapy in glioblastoma multiforme : a series of 13 cases .
Under physiological conditions , angiogenesis is regulated by local balance between endogenous stimulators and inhibitors of this process .
This approach revealed a previously unrecognized transcriptional target of ELK - 1 , the human tissue plasminogen activator ( tPA ) .
Molecular mechanisms of pituitary tumorigenesis were studied using Polymerase chain reaction - single stranded conformational polymorphism with DNA sequencing to identify potential mutations in the ras protooncogenes and the tumor suppressor gene p53 in invasive pituitary adenomas and carcinomas .
The steady - state extraction ratio of enalapril , a substrate that enters the liver rapidly via Oatp1a1 and primarily undergoes metabolism by the carboxylesterases , was unaffected by liver metastasis at week 4 regardless of its delivery via the portal vein or hepatic artery into the perfused liver preparations .
VEGF was also increased in parallel to enhanced IGF - 1 expression .
Recent connections between glucose metabolism and resistance to apoptosis provide a compelling rationale for targeting metabolic changes in cancer .
By live videomicroscopy , we confirmed that the vessels were largely nonfunctional in the absence of alpha2beta1 integrin .
We utilized two autologous human melanoma cell lines , IV Cl 1 and IV Cl 3 , which displayed qualitatively different metastatic phenotypes following subdermal inoculation into nude mice .
Moreover , regional administration of L - NAME , in combination with TNF and melphalan , was studied in an isolated limb perfusion ( ILP ) model using BN175 soft - tissue sarcomas .
The positive rates of expression of MMP - 9 in CNE1 and CNE1 - GL cells were 30 . 2 % and 98 . 2 % , respectively ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
We have previously reported in established breast lines that HIF - 1alpha levels in the presence of oxygen leads to the Warburg effect .
Overexpression of c - Ski inhibited TGF - beta signaling in OCUM - 2MLN cells .
In cultured cells , this molecule is physically associated with focal adhesions , which are well - defined regions of intimate cell - to - substratum adhesion .
In this study , the expression of C / EBPbeta was analysed in a series of 90 gastric carcinomas ( GCs ) .
Augmented lymphangiogenesis was observed within tumors when HEC1A / VEGF - C cells were inoculated .
ADAM - 9 is expressed in human melanoma at the tumor - stroma border where direct or indirect interactions between tumor cells and fibroblasts occur .
Apoptosis is a regulated form of cell death that may be triggered by natural killer ( NK ) or cytotoxic T cells , which effect target cell lysis by cytolytic effector and related proteins through complex intracellular signals .
VEGF protein was higher in alinidine - treated rats than in controls after 2 weeks and increased further after 3 weeks of treatment .
The heart functions ( left ventricle ejection fraction ( LVEF ) , left ventricle fractional shortening ( LVFS ) ) were improved more significantly in the old donor - derived MSCs group than in the control group and the heart function in the young donor - derived MSCs group further improved ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
This may reflect a transition in blood concentration of each metabolite resulting from the administration of UFT .
This result suggested that either the structural or the functional integrity of the J domain is required to sensitize cells to apoptosis .
CD82 expression was significantly reduced in lymph node metastases .
In conclusion , sorafenib administration induced autophagosome formation and enhanced autophagic activity , which conferred a survival advantage to hepatoma cells .
But because these experiments were performed on confluent cultures of established cell lines , the differences are difficult to attribute to ras transformation .
Co - expression of NRP1 and ( VEGFR - 2 ) KDR on the surface of endothelial cells ( EC ) enhances VEGF165 binding to KDR and EC chemotaxis in response to VEGF165 .
Due to the low prevalence of hemangiopericytomas ( HPCs ) , data on the biophysiological characteristics of this tumor are rare .
Glucose deprivation - mediated sensitization to apoptosis was prevented in MCF - 7 cells overexpressing BCL - 2 .
Only 3 of the 13 adenocarcinomas metastatic to the serous membranes included in this study were weakly reactive , accounting for 81 % specificity .
It focuses on the role of IL - 18 modulation in tumours , infections and autoimmune and inflammatory diseases .
Mitochondrial apoptosis and FAK signaling disruption by a novel histone deacetylase inhibitor , HTPB , in antitumor and antimetastatic mouse models .
Interestingly , the neutralization of beta ( 1 ) or the inactivation of PAK increases PSMA activity , suggesting that they negatively regulate PSMA .
The specific enhancement of tumor proliferation in vitro .
Elevated levels of diacylglycerol and decreased phorbol ester sensitivity in ras - transformed fibroblasts .
Evaluations were graded on a zero to four scale .
The median time to disease progression while on treatment was 24 weeks .
Ang1 inhibits the activation of Src by VEGF , the most upstream component of the pathway linking VEGF receptors to VE - cadherin internalization .
Semaphorins comprise a family of molecules that influence neuronal growth and guidance .
We also observed an overlap between C / EBPbeta and COX - 2 expression in GC .
[ Effect of osteopontin silencing by lentivirus - mediated delivery of siRNA on glioma cell invasion and apoptosis ] .
Nursing actions to support the humoral and cell - mediated immune system of the burned patient include providing nutritional support to maintain serum protein levels at optimal levels ; measures to decrease edema and promote angiogenesis in areas of partial - thickness injury ; meticulous treatment of the wound to prevent infection and promote healing ; monitoring of antibiotic use ; conservative use of invasive techniques , including intubation and vascular access devices ; maintenance of fluid and electrolyte balance and body temperature ; and energy conservation measures .
Similarly , flow cytometric measurements revealed that leukocyte apoptosis was increased in MTX - treated animals , while L - Car reversed these effects .
OBJECTIVES : Strategies to inhibit the VEGF pathway , including antibodies to VEGF , antibodies to the extracellular domain of VEGFR - 1 or VEGFR - 2 , decoy receptors for VEGF and tyrosine kinase inhibitors of VEGFRs , are summarized .
We also found an increase of tumor growth and lung metastasis count in TB4 - Tg mice as compared to wildtype mice .
Paclitaxel , a potent anti - neoplastic agent , has been found to be effective against several tumours , including cervical cancer .
[ Expression of Merlin protein in non - small cell lung carcinoma and the clinical significance ] .
Successful FV closure was usually indicated immediately by presence of incarcerated ICG dye in the vessel adjacent to the burn site .
This effect was observed whether the cells had been treated with all - trans - RA in serum - free medium or in medium supplemented with heat - inactivated or acid - treated fetal bovine serum .
A number of signaling cascades have been shown to play important roles in prostate cancer development and progression , including the androgen receptor ( AR ) and phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase / Akt signaling pathways .
uPA and uPAR levels were not significantly associated with tumour staging or survival .
In both the prevention and intervention experiments , a significant diminution of tumor size and weight was observed in the drug - treated animals .
The implication of the small GTPase RhoA in TSH - mediated proliferation of FRTL - 5 rat thyroid cells has been previously demonstrated .
A further study found that FGFR2 - positive fibroblasts were only observed inside the tumor tissues and not in tumor - surrounding stromal tissues , suggesting that FGFR2 could be used as a TF - specific marker in ESCC .
Biomaterials such as Surgisis ( Cook Biotech Incorporated , West Lafayette , IN , USA ) , which are derived from natural ECM , provide the extracellular components necessary to direct the healing response , allow for the proliferation of new , healthy tissue and restore tissue integrity to the damaged site .
The incidence of high - grade lesions in the folate - deficient group was also 49 % lower than that in the control group ( 33 . 3 % versus 65 . 1 % , P = 0 . 007 ) .
However , treating EU - 6 with anti - survivin antisense resensitized these cells to doxorubicin , resulting in apoptosis .
Ectopic localization of mitochondrial ATP synthase : a target for anti - angiogenesis intervention ?
We hypothesized that activation of store - operated Ca2 + channels ( SOCs ) is sufficient to promote cell shape change necessary for these processes .
The increased expression of MMP - 9 was also shown in CNE1 - GL cells by Western blot analysis .
Our results suggest that TEL acts as a tumor suppressor , in part , by transcriptional repression of stromelysin - 1 .
317615 x 2HCl is a promising new antiangiogenic agent that is in early phase clinical testing .
This technique also revealed the inhibitory effect of the NOS inhibitor N ( G ) - iminoethyl - L - ornithine in VEGF - mediated in vivo angiogenesis .
Blocking Dex - induced MKP - 1 induction using small interfering RNA increased ERK1 / 2 and JNK phosphorylation and decreased cell survival .
Circular dichroism and nuclear magnetic resonance analyses indicate that this peptide forms a stable extended structure in solution , presumably beta - sheet structure and is most likely existing as a dimer .
We used these data to establish a convenient , effective and non - radioactive ELISA screening technique for the identification and evaluation of potential inhibitors for VEGFR - 2 kinase .
Direct intramuscular or intraperitoneal injection of DAPT did not result in the same level of improvement , suggesting that appropriate presentation of DAPT ( gel delivery ) is important for its activity .
RESULTS : Mice bearing subcutaneous tumor of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS pretreated Lewis lung carcinoma cells showed > 50 % reduction in primary tumor volume and reduced spontaneous pulmonary metastases .
Both groups received either 0 . 5 mg / ml linomide in drinking water or acidified water and were followed until tumor diameter reached 3 cm or for 4 weeks .
Mitochondrial complex II , or succinate dehydrogenase , is a key enzymatic complex involved in both the tricarboxylic acid ( TCA ) cycle and oxidative phosphorylation as part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain .
The effects of exogenous DCC and netrin - 1 expression were observed together with the respective expression vector transfection .
Previous studies have shown that v - erbA and v - myb can induce the proliferation of avian erythroid cells in culture .
CONCLUSION : MCT targeting significantly reduced the viability of U - 87 MG cells mediated by both apoptosis and necrosis .
We hypothesize that neuroblastoma cells will interact with host tissues to release mediators that affect apoptosis .
Choroidal hyperpermeability was reduced in every case .
The experimental approach includes : estimation of mitochondrial NAD [ P ] + - dependent malic enzyme activity ; respiratory activity of freshly harvested or fasted cells , and of isolated mitochondria ; and determination of the metabolites involved in the glycolytic and glutaminolytic pathways .
In wild - type VHL cells , whereas VEGF - A was significantly up - regulated under hypoxic compared with normoxic conditions ( P less than 0 . 001 ) , expression of VEGF - C was reduced ( P less than 0 . 002 ) .
The ability of distinct subdomains within VASP to bind adhesion proteins and induce F - actin bundling in vivo suggests that this protein could function in the aggregation and tethering of actin filaments during the formation of endothelial cell - substrate and cell - cell contacts .
RESULTS : The positive c - kit protein expression and c - kit gene mutation rates were 97 . 6 % ( 80 / 82 ) and 41 . 5 % ( 34 / 82 ) .
Newly forming vessels have thin caliber , a markedly reduced vessel lumen , markedly reduced pericyte recruitment , and deficient vascular perfusion .
Recent studies on factors involved in tumor vascular development have identified new therapeutic targets for inhibiting tumor neovascularization and thus tumor progression .
Separate rats underwent splenocyte and KC harvest for assessment of lymphocyte - and macrophage - mediated tumor cell kill in vitro .
The connection between collagen type VII deficiency , increased collagenase , and squamous cell carcinoma is not understood .
AIM : Approximately 40 - 60 % of melanomas from Caucasian populations carry activating mutations in the BRAF oncogene , with the most common being the p . Val600Glu ( V600E ) hotspot mutation in exon 15 .
Phosphorylation of Thr654 by protein kinase C decreases high affinity EGF binding and EGF - stimulated tyrosine protein kinase activity , providing a mechanism for heterologous regulation of the EGF receptor by tumor promoters and other ligand X receptor complexes .
Using DsRed - tagged Crk and a fluorescent time - lapse microscope , we showed that Crk was recruited to the nascent focal complex after ephrin - B1 stimulation .
Gastric cancer metastasized when ITCs were observed in the presence of VEGFR - 1 .
METHODS : Preoperative plasma fibrinogen levels were retrospectively examined in 405 patients who underwent surgery for advanced gastric cancer .
However , monolayer cultures differ greatly from the complex environmental conditions generated in solid tumors that develop inhomogeneous hypoxic and necrotic regions .
The mRNA and protein expressions of KISS1 and of MMP - 9 protein were detected by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry respectively in 85 cases of NSCLC , and their matched lymph node metastases .
During progressive disease no change was observed in the former parameters , concomitant with a significant increase in IL - 10 ( P = 0 . 020 ) and a significant decrease in TGFbeta1 ( P = 0 . 023 ) .
Cells infected with this mutant display a 36 , 000 - dalton protein that is phosphorylated to a considerably lesser extent than cells infected with wild - type virus .
In addition to altering metastasis , beta - catenin levels control tumor differentiation and regulate both MAPK / Erk and PI3K / Akt signaling .
In contrast , MCT 3 was the predominantly expressed isoform in normal brain .
Development of obesity is associated with extensive modifications in adipose tissue involving adipogenesis , angiogenesis and extracellular matrix proteolysis .
SV40 Tag transformation of the normal invasive trophoblast results in a premalignant phenotype .
A remarkable delay of tumor growth and prolonged life span were also observed .
The elevated fibrinogen level may be associated with invasiveness and lymphatic metastasis .
FAS - 1377 G / A polymorphism and the risk of lymph node metastasis in cervical cancer .
Because many questions will require in vivo studies to be properly addressed , the zebrafish , with its unique accessibility to analysis by combined embryological , molecular , and genetic methods , should prove invaluable in identifying new molecules involved in blood vessel development and integrating pathways that influence embryonic blood vessel formation .
The antivascular permeability mechanisms deployed by Ang1 are still undefined .
These studies support a role of both systems in adipogenesis and obesity ; the role of specific members of these families , however , remains to be determined .
All genes except those encoding angiotensinogen and epoxide hydrolase ( that were decreased ) , and 12 - lipoxygenase and vascular endothelial growth factor ( that showed no change ) , were significantly up - regulated in GK islets .
Nicked { beta } 2 - glycoprotein I binds angiostatin 4 . 5 ( plasminogen kringle 1 - 5 ) and attenuates its antiangiogenic property .
Clinical implication of expression of cyclooxygenase - 2 and peroxisome proliferator activated - receptor gamma in epithelial ovarian tumours .
In animal or cell culture studies , the growth and spread of cancer can be slowed by many nutrients , food factors , herbal extracts , and well - tolerated , available drugs that are still rarely used in the clinical management of cancer , in part because they seem unlikely to constitute definitive therapies in themselves .
As LVI is a strong predictive and prognostic marker , the monoclonal antibody D2 - 40 has the potential to play a significant role in pathological routine workup of breast tumors .
The area covered by spread EC was dramatically enlarged , accompanied by an increase in focal contacts and altered organization of actin filaments .
Cyclooxygenase - 2 inhibitor may be a promising therapeutic agent for human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma .
In this study , we have explored the activity of GSE on VEGF receptor and angiogenesis .
Treatment involved intravitreal injection of bevacizumab ( 1 . 25 mg in 0 . 05 mL ) every 6 - 12 weeks .
N - myc is coexpressed with WT1 in the developing kidney and is overexpressed in many Wilms ' tumors .
Urokinase receptor : a molecular organizer in cellular communication .
Both cell lines showed reduced expression of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteases ( TIMP ) - 1 , while TIMP - 2 and plasminogen activator inhibitor ( PAI ) - I expression was was also reduced in RSVT2 / C cells , thus contributing to their hyperinvasiveness .
Metastatic disease is one of the major causes of death from cancer in human beings .
Recent reports suggest a participation of matrix metalloproteinases ( MMP ) in tumour pericyte recruitment that is consistent with the effect of certain MMPs in the development of microvasculature in embryonic development and in in vitro models of vascular remodelling .
Retinopathy is the most common microvascular diabetes complication and represents a major threat to the eyesight .
L - Carnitine ameliorates methotrexate - induced oxidative organ injury and inhibits leukocyte death .
In addition , a reduction in tumor volume of Grm1 - mouse - melanocytic - allografts was detected in the presence of small interfering AKT2 RNA ( siAKT2 ) .
Mild mutations in BRCA2 ( FANCD1 ) cause Fanconi anemia ( FA ) when homozygous , while severe mutations cause common cancers including breast , ovarian , and prostate cancers when heterozygous .
These data provide the first demonstration of IGF - I / II expression in the human lung in early gestation and indicate that the IGF family of growth factors , acting through the IGF - IR , is required as a survival factor during normal human lung vascularization .
Abnormal expression of E - cadherin and beta - catenin may be a molecular marker of submucosal invasion and lymph node metastasis in early gastric cancer .
Evaluation of electrical stimulation for ischemic wound therapy : a feasibility study using the lapine wound model .
CONCLUSIONS : Galectin - 3C is not overtly toxic , and is efficacious in reducing metastases and tumor volumes and weights in primary tumors in an orthotopic nude mouse model of human breast cancer .
This pattern of expression is consistent with a mechanistic involvement of 5T4 molecules in the spread of cancer cells .
RESULTS : The antiapoptotic protein Bcl - 2 was highly expressed by pulmonary endothelial cells in all cases of irreversible PHT but in no cases of reversible PHT , nor in control patients ( p less than 0 . 001 ) .
A small GTPase Arf6 primarily regulates recycling of plasma membrane components .
Changes of bile reflux to the stomach was observed endoscopically at 24 weeks as well as the development of gastric mucosal erosions .
Using tissue - specific ablation in mice , we deleted the BR - SMADs from somatic cells of ovaries and testes .
The 5 - yr survival rate in patients with the coexpression was poorer than in the other patients .
Consistent with the in vitro data , GSE treatment of tumor - bearing mice led to concomitant reduction of blood vessel density and phosphorylation of mitogen - activated protein kinase .
Attenuating galectin - 1 expression by siRNA constrained PTTG - HA / EC9706 cell motility ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
However , after they formed tumors in nude mice , every clone acquired high metastatic ability and the gene amplification increased , with elevated mRNA expression .
At the cellular level , the result is hypoxia which impairs wound healing .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) has recently attracted attention as a potent inducer of vascular permeability and angiogenesis .
These data indicate that artemisinin may be useful for the prevention of lymph node metastasis by downregulating VEGF - C and reducing tumor lymphangiogenesis .
In addition to well established functions to block cell proliferation , recent studies have revealed a role for p53 in the regulation of pathways involved in glucose metabolism .
Neoplastic transformation and tumorigenesis associated with overexpression of phospholipase D isozymes in cultured murine fibroblasts .
[ Intraepithelial neoplasm of the uterine cervix and angiogenesis : morphologic study ]
Microenvironments have been highly implicated in the malignancy of mammary tumors .
Treatment of K562 cells with tunicamycin for 18 h , resulted in extensive loss of the 50 - 60 kDa glycoprotein , appearance of a 30 - 40 kDa band and increased staining of a 45 kDa band .
Additional activities of p53 in non - stressed cells tune up the antioxidant defense mechanisms reducing the probability of mutations caused by DNA oxidation under conditions of daily stresses .
beta2 - glycoprotein I ( beta2GPI ) is proteolytically cleaved by plasmin in its domain V ( nicked beta2GPI ) , resulting in binding to plasminogen .
These results suggest that products of ethanol metabolism are important factors in the development of ethanol - induced changes in endothelial cell responsiveness to VEGF .
Several regulatory and signaling molecules governing angiogenesis are of interest , including growth factors ( eg , vascular endothelial growth factor , platelet - derived growth factor , fibroblast growth factor , and epidermal growth factor ) , receptor tyrosine kinases , and transcription factors such as hypoxia inducible factor , as well as molecules involved in mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) and phosphoinositide 3 - kinase ( PI3K ) signaling .
TP is not only expressed in tumor cells but also in tumor surrounding tissues , such as tumor infiltrating macrophages .
The present work supports and extends the finding of previous studies , since the results showed that the glucose metabolism depressed the oxidative processes in Ehrlich ascites tumor mitochondria , not only alone , but also in the presence of glutamine .
METHODS AND RESULTS : Purified B - CLL cells from 15 patients were cultured either alone or with Sim at concentrations of 10 , 50 , and 100 microM .
Effect of ROS on angiogenesis in tumors expressing hot - spot p53 mutants was correlated with their ability to increase a content of HIF1 transcriptional factor responsible for up - regulation of VEGF - A mRNAs .
It is concluded that its action is targeted to tumor neovasculature and the mechanism is inhibition of tumor angiogenesis .
Polyphenols are natural antioxidants that are thought to contribute to prevention of cardiovascular disease and malignancy .
We also compared the presence of EGFR and TGF - alpha and Ki - 67 index with clinical data .
However FOXO3a induction has little effect on cell proliferation , indicating that FOXO3a or its downstream activity is deregulated in the cytotoxic drug resistant breast cancer cells .
The short - term response of Swiss 3T3 cells to an activator of protein kinase C also appeared to be independent of growth state , since the 50 % effective dose for PDBu inhibition of EGF binding to its receptor was approximately 7 nM for both growth conditions .
RASSF1A is a tumor suppressor gene .
RESULTS : The control group showed the highest level of corneal clouding and neovascularization .
Invasion of the human melanoma cell line , BLM , was also attenuated by the anti - PAI - 1 monoclonal antibody MAI - 12 .
CONCLUSION : BRAF p . Val600Lys mutations were present at a relatively high frequency in this cohort of metastatic melanoma patients ( 27 / 183 , 15 % ) .
The kinase reactions showed preference for ATP and MgCl2 instead of GTP or MnCl2 .
These results suggest that p24delta1 and possibly other p24 family proteins are required for normal insulin biosynthesis and subsequent secretion in pancreatic beta - cells .
Sanguinarine induces apoptosis of human osteosarcoma cells through the extrinsic and intrinsic pathways .
Anchorage - independent cell growth is indicative of cell transformation resulting in acquisition of tumorigenic potential .
Hedgehog signaling in the murine melanoma microenvironment .
Cancer cells are different from normal cells in their metabolic properties .
CONCLUSIONS : The level of fibrinogen in patients with pancreatic carcinoma was elevated .
The ST3 and BM - 40 / SPARC transcripts were overexpressed in primary colorectal cancers and their liver metastases compared to non - neoplastic mucosa .
Furthermore , mouse embryonic fibroblasts required the presence of B16F0 cells to express Patched in a co - culture assay system .
Coexpression of PIM - 1KD and PIM - 2KD abrogated growth factor - independent growth of Ba / F3 transformed by several PTKs , including BCR / ABL .
Excitotoxic damage due to striatal infusion of an NMDA - receptor agonist ( cis - 2 , 4 - methanoglutamate ) was also markedly inhibited ( 71 % ) by injection of the IL - 1ra .
Each was legally blind before treatment ( n = 1 ) , experienced little to no subjective improvement ( n = 2 ) , or was poorly compliant ( n = 2 ) .
METHODS : MSCs from Sprague - Dawley ( SD ) rats were isolated and cultured in vitro .
It is clear that this cycle functions optimally in skin of dark pigmentation .
To identify a suitable donor cell population for gene therapy applications to the central nervous system , primary fibroblasts isolated from skin biopsies and maintained in culture are employed as autologous cells for intracerebral grafting within the adult rat striatum .
The compound was orally bioavailable ( 31 % after a single 10 mg kg ( - 1 ) dose ) and resistant to metabolism .
However , as yet , there is no genetic evidence for a role of autophagy genes in tumor suppression .
Emodin , at a 40 - microM concentration , which repressed tyrosine kinase of p185neu , efficiently inhibited both anchorage - dependent and anchorage - independent growth of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells .
It is also involved in the regulation of immune reactions , hematopoiesis and inflammatory state .
To study tumor related angiogenesis a vascular window model was used to monitor tumor vascularity .
An emerging area of research suggests that CSC may also support tumor progression by promoting tumor angiogenesis .
Serum soluble vascular adhesion protein - 1 is a valuable prognostic marker in gastric cancer .
METHODS : Thirty - eight Wistar albino rats underwent laparotomy to cause intra - abdominal adhesions by mechanical abrasion of the cecum and ethanol application .
These HCC cell lines had a similar genetic background but with an increasing potential of metastasis .
Glucocorticoid receptor ( GR ) activation has recently been shown to inhibit apoptosis in breast epithelial cells .
PURPOSE : Pigment epithelial - derived factor ( PEDF ) is a potent angiogenesis inhibitor with multiple other functions , some of which enhance tumor growth .
Immunocytochemistry revealed that endosialin was present in the cytoplasmic body and in the elongated extensions essential to pericyte function .
Chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter - transcription factor II ( COUP - TFII ) plays an essential role in angiogenesis and development .
Eleven genes were identified whose expression changed significantly in response to carcinogen treatment .
Immunoblotting and immunostaining studies demonstrated an upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) mostly along the endothelium lining peritoneal blood vessels in long - term PD patients .
CONCLUSION : The Fas - FasL - mediated apoptosis pathway may contribute to the IL - 12 - induced rejection of prostate carcinoma .
Apoptosis ( programmed cell death ) regulates cell population size .
It has long been noted , however , that hair follicle cycling is associated with prominent changes in skin perfusion , that the epithelial hair bulbs of anagen follicles display angiogenic properties , and that the follicular dermal papilla can produce angiogenic factors .
As predicted , these MEFs upregulated Hif - 1alpha and HIF target genes directly as a result of FH deficiency .
We previously reported that the murine fibroblast cell line LTA is tumorigenic but non - metastatic , and is non - responsive to a transfected H - ras oncogene .
The graft size is dependent on the density of the cell suspension , but not dependent on either the number of passages the cells are taken through in culture prior to grafting or on the postoperative survival period .
Male double Smad1 Smad5 conditional knockout mice are fertile but demonstrate metastatic testicular tumor development .
Neoplastic progression of human colorectal cancer is associated with overexpression of the stromelysin - 3 and BM - 40 / SPARC genes .
These findings demonstrate that Src can activate STAT signaling pathways and raise the possibility that Stat3 contributes to oncogenesis by Src .
Little is known about the metabolic adaptation of endothelial cells through such a transformation .
The increased expressions of these proteins in Galpha ( 12 ) QL cells were validated by immunoblot analysis .
We show that PSMA inhibition , knockdown , or deficiency decreases endothelial cell invasion in vitro via integrin and PAK , thus abrogating angiogenesis .
The region contains a number of small open reading frames on each side and within the MSRs .
Remarkably , final sigma mRNA was undetectable in 45 of 48 primary breast carcinomas .
RESULTS : IL - 12 - expressing RM - 9 prostate carcinoma cells transplanted into C57BL / J6 mice grew more slowly than control RM - 9 cells and vector control RM - 9 - Luc cells .
Prognostic significance of heat shock protein 27 ( HSP27 ) in patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma .
In the present study , we developed the first specific inhibitors of the pyruvate kinase isoenzyme type M2 and present evidence that these inhibitors moderately decelerate tumor cell proliferation .
The in vivo role of 9E3 / CEF4 may be involved with chemotaxis and metastasis , rather than with direct stimulation of mitogenicity .
The accumulation of genetic alterations of some proto - oncogens , like the erbB - family , may be part of the mechanism , by which malignant cells can acquire a selective growth advantage .
Pericytes limit tumor cell metastasis .
The authors studied insulin effects on tumor and skeletal muscle metabolism with 2 - [ 18F ] - fluoro - 2 - deoxy - D - glucose ( [ 18F ] FDG ) and positron emission tomography ( PET ) .
Increased platelet counts and systemic coagulation activation are associated with ovarian cancer progression .
Two of the mutations included a G to C substitution at codon 12 , and a G to A substitution at codon 18 , resulting in a glycine to arginine , and an alanine to threonine change at these amino acids , respectively .
Despite these suggestive observations , no formal proof is as yet available for the concept that angiogenesis is a physiologic event that occurs all over the mature mammalian integument whenever hair follicles switch from resting ( telogen ) to active growth ( anagen ) .
It is concluded that the observed increase in the Na + / K + ratio in ascites tumor cells is connected with their enhanced ability to synthesize lactic acid .
Glioma tumor stem - like cells promote tumor angiogenesis and vasculogenesis via vascular endothelial growth factor and stromal - derived factor 1 .
The neuroblastoma cells have a significant decrease in Fas ligand .
RESULTS : Both inhibition of proliferation ( p < 0 . 05 ) and induction of apoptosis ( p < 0 . 05 ) were observed in SKOV3 cells transfected with hPNAS - 4 - p in vitro .
Expression of SPARC was significantly correlated with the expression of VEGF and MVD in colon cancer tissues .
Mutation of p53 may play an important role in the high proliferative activity of tumors in the RSCM group and H . pylori infection may be closely related to carcinogenesis in patients with RSC .
These results show that v - erbA is capable of inducing an erythroleukemia when expressed by a high titer bicistronic retrovirus under conditions of virus spreading and that its in vitro and in vivo transforming potential can be enhanced by v - myb .
Induction of this DNA - binding activity was accompanied by tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat3 and correlated with Src transformation .
Risk of myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia in congenital neutropenias .
METHODS : Tumor biopsy specimens and serum were obtained from 37 neuroblastoma patients ; adrenal biopsy sections and sera of 7 normal children served as controls .
Gene expression data from bone marrow ( BM ) , liver , and spleen of mice exposed to a single dose ( 4 h ) or seven daily doses of 2 - BE were used to develop a mechanistic model of hemangiosarcoma .
Microvascular density and vascular endothelial growth factor immunoreactivity as predictors of regional lymph node metastasis from betel - associated oral squamous cell carcinoma .
However , the development of cervical cancer is a multistep process that cannot be explained simply by infection with specific types of HPV .
The metabolism of [ 1 , 2 - ( 13 ) C ( 2 ) ] - glucose by HUVEC allows us to trace many of the main glucose metabolic pathways , including glycogen synthesis , the pentose cycle and the glycolytic pathways .
Dynein light chain 1 , a p21 - activated kinase 1 - interacting substrate , promotes cancerous phenotypes .
Apoptotic cells were more numerous in RM - 9 - IL12 tumors : 10 . 3 % vs . 1 . 5 % in control ( P = 0 . 001 ) .
Histogenesis of the abnormal vessels may involve production of an angiogenic factor by the cancerized epithelia .
CONCLUSIONS : The results have shown that bisphosphonates as adjuvant treatment might be useful for the prevention of bone metastases ; however , there is need for blinded randomized data before such an approach would be confirmed .
Lewis lung carcinomas , MT - ret melanomas , and B16F10 melanomas all grew slower in Ang - 2 - deficient mice .
In addition , hypoxia conditioning - induced tumor cell migration was reduced by the infection of lentiviral shRNA of TB4 .
Recent studies have shown that 14 - 3 - 3zeta interacted with other key cellular proteins involved in the tumor development and progression .
BAG - 1 regulates cellular growth , differentiation and survival through interactions with diverse proteins , including the vitamin D receptor ( VDR ) , a key regulator of keratinocyte growth and differentiation .
However , their potency toward individual targets can vary .
An immunohistochemical analysis revealed that Ets - 1 accumulated in migrating cells at the wound edge and returned to basal level when reendothelialization was accomplished .
Cytogenetic examination of Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) p21 ( - / - ) sarcomas and lymphomas revealed aneuploidy and chromosomal aberrations that were absent in Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) malignancies .
We screened 200 RTK target - based compounds and identified one ( TKI - 31 ) that potently inhibited VEGFR - 2 kinase activity ( IC50 = 0 . 596 microM ) .
METHODS : Primary lung cancers ( n = 269 ) and non neoplastic lung tissue ( n = 35 ) were tested for LDH5 expression by immunohistochemistry using a polyclonal LDH5 antibody ( ab53010 ) .
In addition , the microtubule - destabilizing agents cause prominent changes in endothelial cell morphology , an action associated with rapid vascular collapse in vivo .
In an effort to dissect the mechanisms of GR - mediated breast epithelial cell survival , we now examine the molecular events downstream of GR activation .
BACKGROUND : Angiogenesis plays an important role in maintaining adequate oxygen delivery , and nitric oxide ( NO ) is a potential regulator of angiogenesis .
AKT2 is a downstream target of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 ( Grm1 ) .
Based on its role in malignant transformation , apoptosis , and cell proliferation , the transcription factor NF - kappaB / Rel has gained the attention of many laboratories .
Recombinant EBV containing LMP1 with TES2 deleted induces a limited proliferation of B cells .
As with duplication of the entire TK / CAIN region ( exons 18 - 26 ) in A - 172 cells , duplication of exons 18 - 25 is associated with a specific genomic rearrangement between flanking introns .
It is concluded that curcumin inhibits the adhesion and invasion of MCF - 7 cells through down - regulating the protein expression of uPA via of NF - kappaB activation .
It is the driving force for tumor development as it facilitates the accumulation of mutations in genes that regulate cell death and proliferation and therefore promotes malignant transformation .
Moreover , computed tomography ( CT ) showed a complete regression of the extensive lymph node and diffuse lung metastases , for a complete response ( CR ) .
A key factor in the response of cancer cells to chemotherapeutic drugs is the activation of the apoptotic pathway , a pathway that is often impaired in chemoresistant colon cancer cells .
Punica granatum ( pomegranate ) and its potential for prevention and treatment of inflammation and cancer .
Formation of apoptotic bodies was preceded by lowering of intracellular polyamines , particularly putrescine , and both dose - and time - dependent inhibitory and activation effect by ACA on ornithine decarboxylase ( ODC ) and spermidine / spermine N ( 1 ) - acetyltransferase ( SSAT ) , respectively .
METHODS : Sixty - two patients ( 62 eyes ) with PM underwent PDT according to the guidelines of the Verteporfin in Photodynamic Therapy Study .
Non - invasive grading of primary brain tumours : results of a comparative study between SPET with 123I - alpha - methyl tyrosine and PET with 18F - deoxyglucose .
This study investigated the expression of TS and DPD in cervical lymph node metastases and its relationship with primary OSCC , as well as the interaction between these enzymes and Kangai 1 ( KAI1 / CD82 ) which is a metastasis suppressor protein .
Genes most significantly represented in this program are those with roles in cell growth and proliferation > protein synthesis > gene expression > cell death > cell cycle .
Although DU145 prostate cancer cells are resistant to exogenously applied Fas agonist CH - 11 ( anti - Fas monoclonal antibody ) , Fas - resistance can be overcome using a FasL expressing adenovirus ( AdGFPFasL ( TET ) ) [ Hyer et al . , Molecular Therapy , 2000 ; 2 : 348 - 58 ( ref . 12 ) ] .
Complexes containing VEGF165 , NRP1 , and KDR were also formed in an intercellular fashion by co - culture of EC expressing KDR only , with cells expressing NRP1 only , for example , breast carcinoma cells .
Intrauterine growth restriction ( IUGR ) still accounts for a large incidence of infant mortality and morbidity worldwide .
In the high - level group the authors found typical DNA ladder eletrophoresis stripe .
These findings identify c - MYC as an important molecular switch that alters the cellular response to OSM - mediated signaling from tumor suppressive to tumor promoting .
Taken together , these results showed that , in addition to the MAPK pathway previously reported being a downstream target of stimulated Grm1 , AKT2 is another downstream target in Grm1 mediated melanocyte transformation .
The genes regulated by Nrf2 are very important for cellular protection of the genome from xenobiotic and oxidative stresses and , consequently , for preventing carcinogenesis .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : Fifteen patients with MEN II A ( aged 4 - 24 years ) who had undergone prophylactic thyroidectomy since 1990 were included in the study .
Treatment of these T - cells with 5 - azacytidine resulted in the induction of DR surface antigen expression , the appearance of DR alpha mRNA , and the partial demethylation of the DR alpha DNA sequences .
We propose that the upregulation of the secreted FGF - BP protein during early phases of pancreas and colon cancer could make this protein a possible serum marker indicating the presence of high - risk premalignant lesions .
However , it is unclear whether sunitinib acts only through an antiangiogenic mechanism or whether it may also directly target tumor cells .
These data also suggest that uPA and PAI - 1 may co - operate in the migratory process by respectively facilitating the attachment to , and subsequent detachment from , vitronectin in the extracellular matrix .
For verifying apoptosis , both DNA Fragmentation by ELISA assay and caspase 3 / 7 activity measurement were used .
We have shown that TNFalpha can cause DNA damages through reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) .
A 71 - year - old woman was admitted to our hospital because of breathlessness .
We analyzed the relative abundance of ST3 and BM - 40 / SPARC transcripts by Northern blot , and their distribution by in situ hybridization , in normal mucosa , benign adenomas , and primary colorectal adenocarcinomas and their liver metastases .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is one of the most critical factors that induce angiogenesis and has thus become an attractive target for antiangiogenesis treatment .
bFGF loaded PLGA - HP microspheres showed sustained release profiles of bFGF in vitro , demonstrating reversible and specific binding of bFGF to immobilized heparin .
Ras - association domain family 1C protein promotes breast cancer cell migration and attenuates apoptosis .
We recently identified GEP100 ( BRAG2 ) to be responsible for the Arf6 activation to induce invasion and metastasis , by directly binding to ligand - activated epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) .
CONCLUSION : This study identifies specific components of the Robo signaling apparatus that work together to guide directional migration of endothelial cells .
IL - 17F deficiency inhibits small intestinal tumorigenesis in ApcMin / + mice .
The B ( 1 ) R distribution pattern mirrored that of HER2 except that B ( 1 ) R was additionally observed in the adenomas .
Altogether , these results suggest a new approach to promote angiogenesis by controlling Notch signaling , and may provide new options to treat patients with diseases that diminish angiogenic responsiveness .
Although this pathway is activated by autocrine signaling by Hedgehog ligands , it can also initiate paracrine signaling with cells in the microenvironment .
The ras - encoded proteins are similar to regulatory G - proteins and are candidates for the unknown G - protein that modulates phosphatidylinositol ( PI ) turnover .
The median number of therapies applied , including initial surgery , was 5 ( range 3 - 7 therapies ) .
9E3 / CEF4 , which is released from transformed chicken embryo fibroblasts ( CEF ) , is a member of the platelet factor 4 family of inflammatory proteins and may be the avian homolog of interleukin - 8 .
hADA3 binds selectively to the high - risk HPV E6 proteins and only to immortalization - competent E6 mutants .
These effects do not require direct cell - cell contact , yet result from continuous interaction between activated lymphoid cells and EC .
Promotion of inflammation was also involved because lower TSP - 1 was able to up - regulate the adhesion molecules intercellular adhesion molecule - 1 and vascular cell adhesion molecule - 1 .
By using mass spectrometric analysis , we identified that PTTG up - regulated S100A4 and galectin - 1 secretion and down - regulated tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 2 secretion to the culture media .
In addition , although VEGF receptors were higher in tumors than normal kidney , there was a significant up - regulation of only flt - 1 ( P = 0 . 003 ) but not KDR ( P = 0 . 12 ) or flt - 4 ( P = 0 . 09 ) .
In combination with TNF or melphalan , L - NAME increased response rates significantly compared to perfusions without L - NAME ( 0 - 64 % and 0 - 63 % respectively ) .
MMP2 and MMP9 activity were determined by zymographic assay , and MAPK activation by Western blotting analysis .
Integration of HPV DNA frequently disrupts the E2 open reading frames , resulting in overexpression of the E6 and E7 oncoproteins and possibly causing genomic instability .
UV radiation has been shown to play a role in the initiation of human cutaneous melanoma , but its role in the development of malignant melanoma to the metastatic state is not very well defined .
Glutamine and glucose as energy substrates for Ehrlich ascites tumour cells .
Whereas agents seem promising in the test tube , clinical trials often fail due to unfavorable pharmacokinetics , poor delivery , low local concentrations , and limited accumulation in the target cell .
Activating mutations of the TSH - R gene have been detected in a group of differentiated carcinomas with high basal adenylyl cyclase activity , and in a few cases of hyperfunctioning thyroid carcinoma .
The c - myc oncogene encodes for a transcriptional factor involved in many cellular processes such as proliferation , differentiation and apoptosis .
Isotype - specific inhibitors of the glycolytic key regulator pyruvate kinase subtype M2 moderately decelerate tumor cell proliferation .
These results suggest that Ve and OMP may be crucial heat - labile and protease - sensitive components of periodontal pathogens that enhance VEGF expression .
A standardized surgical procedure incorporated a hybrid stimulation system comprising an implantable mini - stimulator and surface electrodes , with creation of repeatable ischemic wounds .
Increased nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 messenger RNA expression and absence of mutations in colon carcinomas of low and high metastatic potential .
Furthermore , the biological activity of FGF - BP is neutralized by monoclonal antibodies suggesting the potential for antibody - based therapeutic targeting .
Since hexokinase is the first rate limiting enzyme in the glycolytic pathway , elevated levels of Type II like hexokinase in tumors are of great significance in this context .
Previously , we reported that topical exposure to Cum - OOH caused formation of free radicals and oxidative stress in the skin of vitamin E - deficient mice .
Previously we demonstrated that N1 ( ic ) and N2 ( ic ) could transform E1A immortalized baby rat kidney cells ( RKE ) in vitro .
Immunohistochemical study with specific antisera was done .
Inhibition of PDGF - stimulated and matrix - mediated proliferation of human vascular smooth muscle cells by SPARC is independent of changes in cell shape or cyclin - dependent kinase inhibitors .
TTF - 1 immunohistochemistry could focus the search for the primary tumor for patients presenting with brain metastasis as the initial manifestation .
In ILP , reduced tumour growth was observed when L - NAME was used alone .
Knockdown of PLCbeta3 in HUVEC cells affects IP3 production , actin reorganization , migration and proliferation ; whereas migration is inhibited , proliferation is enhanced .
Together , these data further establish the involvement of endothelial PECAM - 1 in angiogenesis and suggest that , in vivo , PECAM - 1 may stimulate endothelial cell motility by promoting the formation of filopodia .
These data also suggest that folate deficiency may inhibit colorectal carcinogenesis in chronic UC .
SDF - 1alpha induced rapid phosphorylation of Erk1 / 2 MAPK but did not promote phosphorylation of Stat3 or Akt .
Here we report that infusion of Ang II significantly increases circulating levels of sFlt - 1 in pregnant mice , thereby demonstrating that Ang II is a regulator of sFlt - 1 secretion in vivo .
Adenovirus - mediated p53 gene transfer is ineffective in causing apoptosis in glioma cells that retain wild - type p53 genotype or overexpress the p21 protein .
However , fetal utilization of oxygen and glucose , on a weight basis , remain constant compared with control pregnancies .
The inhibition of fibrinolysis or proteases decreased the primary tumor growth and pulmonary metastasis , whereas the activation of fibrinolysis or proteases increased the number of metastatic foci in the lung .
Serum IL - 6 levels correlate with tumor stage , and survival of patients .
Angiogenesis was significantly inhibited in the DMBA - vitamin E group and TGF alpha expression was also inhibited .
These mutations may have functional consequences since they eliminate potential phosphorylation sites and may affect the tertiary structure of mature protein complexes .
Cyclooxygenase - 2 ( COX - 2 ) inhibitors are anti - inflammatory agents , which have potent anti - inflammatory , anti - angiogenic and analgesic properties yet do not affect platelet function in the manner of traditional non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs .
Focal adhesion kinase ( pp125FAK or FAK ) is a protein tyrosine kinase which is associated with intracellular signalling cascades which are initiated when the integrin family of cell adhesion molecules engage extracellular matrix molecules .
In contrast , the conditioned media induce elevated levels of proapoptotic mediators in the Chang hepatocytes .
We demonstrate for the first time that ERK5 signaling not only is involved in EC survival and stress response but also controls migration and morphology of EC .
Expression of TSP - 1 is up - regulated by the tumor suppressor gene , p53 , and down - regulated by oncogenes such as Myc and Ras .
Seventy - five patients underwent biopsies of carcinomas metastatic to the brain .
Preventing VEGFR1 function using antibodies or by the removal of VEGFR1 ( + ) cells from the bone marrow of wild - type mice abrogates the formation of these pre - metastatic clusters and prevents tumour metastasis , whereas reconstitution with selected Id3 ( inhibitor of differentiation 3 ) - competent VEGFR1 + cells establishes cluster formation and tumour metastasis in Id3 knockout mice .
This effect is mediated , at least in part , by a decrease in TTF - 1 activity , since transient or stable expression of RhoA QL results in a reduction in the activity of the wild - type Tg promoter as well as an artificial promoter the activation of which depends exclusively on TTF - 1 .
The proinflammatory activities link TNF - alpha with a wide variety of autoimmune diseases , including psoriasis , inflammatory bowel disease , rheumatoid arthritis , systemic sclerosis , systemic lupus erythematosus , multiple sclerosis , diabetes and ankylosing spondylitis .
To investigate this hypothesis , we isolated primary mouse embryonic fibroblast ( MEF ) lines from Fh1 - deficient mice .
The Ha - ras oncogene alone did not convert normal human fibroblasts into either immortal or tumorigenic cells .
Histologic evaluation revealed that although tumors overexpressing TIMP - 3 had an increased number of CD31 ( + ) endothelial cells , these endothelial cells had not formed functional tubules , as evidenced by decreased vessel continuity and minimal pericyte recruitment .
Thrombospondin - 2 plays a protective role in multistep carcinogenesis : a novel host anti - tumor defense mechanism .
In the present study we examined the possibility that the revertant phenotype resulted from mutations that altered the expression or activities of the c - jun or junB proto - oncogenes .
We also assessed the effect of C / EBPbeta on COX - 2 expression .
Meanwhile , knockdown of HDGF , an up - regulated protein and a target of NF - kappaB , induced cell apoptosis in the metastatic HCC cells .
Decreased expression of TGF - beta RII in CML cells and leukemia cell lines raises the possibility that altered expression of the receptor may play a role in the initiation and / or maintenance of the disease state .
In addition , ethanol exposure decreased expression of endothelial VEGF receptor - 2 , as well as VEGF receptor - 2 phosphorylation in vitro .
TES2 mediates the interaction with tumor necrosis factor receptor - associated death domain protein ( TRADD ) and plays a key role in transactivating NF - kappa B and AP - 1 .
After tumors developed , mice were treated with angiostatin 20 mg / kg / day or thalidomide 200 mg / kg / day for 30 days .
Instead of a traditional single - gene readout , global bioinformatics analysis was carried out , which revealed that the glycolysis pathway was the most significantly enriched pathway .
METHODS : Grafted animals for corneal survival analysis were assigned to receive either spironolactone suspension ( orally , 100 mg / kg / day , n = 7 ) , phosphate - buffered saline ( PBS , orally , same volume as spironolactone , n = 9 ) or remained untreated ( n = 16 ) .
The human T - cell leukemia viruses HTLV - I and HTLV - II are unique among the transforming retroviruses of vertebrates in their ability to transform human T cells in vitro and in their close association with human malignancies ( T - cell lymphomas and leukemia ) .
This result supports the alleged contribution of overexpressed receptor tyrosine kinases to cell transformation .
These data provide a mechanism whereby VASP can influence endothelial migration and organization during capillary formation and modulate vascular permeability via effects on endothelial cell contractility .
Mice primed with dimethyl - benz [ a ] anthracene ( DMBA ) were topically exposed to Cum - OOH ( 82 . 6 micromol ) or the positive control , 12 - O - tetradecanoylphorbol - 13 - acetate ( TPA , 17 nmol ) , twice weekly for 29 weeks .
These events are associated with a short survival and support the concept of a cooperative effect of BCR - ABL with molecular RUNX1 abnormalities on the differentiation arrest phenotype observed during progression of CML and in BCR - ABL + ALL .
Leukocyte - vessel wall interactions were studied both within and outside small tumors growing in the ear , and in ear microvessels of mice with a large tumor growing on their flank .
The anti - tumour effect of L - NAME after systemic administration was studied in a renal subcapsular CC531 adenocarcinoma model in rats .
Engrafted MSCs survived , proliferated and differentiated into myocardium - like cells .
Female double Smad1 Smad5 and triple Smad1 Smad5 Smad8 conditional knockout mice become infertile and develop metastatic granulosa cell tumors .
These novel functions of p53 help to align metabolic processes with the proliferation and energy status , to maintain optimal mode of glucose metabolism and to boost the energy efficient mitochondrial respiration in response to ATP deficiency .
The different tumorigenic potential of SV40 in WAP - T and WAP - mutCK1delta / WAP - T tumors was also reflected by a significantly different expression of various genes known to be involved in tumor progression , specifically of those involved in wnt - signaling and DNA repair .
However , development of consumption coagulopathy characterized by progression from hypercoagulable state to disseminated intravascular coagulation has also been found in several cases .
The formation of functional units with these various proteins allows the uPAR to mediate the focused proteolysis required for cell migration and invasion and to contribute both directly and indirectly to cell adhesive processes in a non - proteolytic fashion .
Under the conditions used , peroxide - induced conversion of GSH to GSSG could be stoichiometrically reversed by resupplying D - glucose , indicating that no significant lysis or GSSG efflux and / or interchange had taken place .
Clinical studies have shown elevated serum IL - 6 concentrations in patients with endometrial cancer , non - small cell lung carcinoma , colorectal cancer , renal cell carcinoma , breast and ovarian cancer .
An intracellular complex containing NRP1 and KDR was immunoprecipitated from EC by anti - NRP1 antibodies only in the presence of VEGF165 .
Therapeutic angiogenesis : a complex problem requiring a sophisticated approach .
Using tamoxifen and doxorubicin - sensitive and - resistant breast cancer cell lines as models , we found that doxorubicin - but not tamoxifen - resistance is associated with nuclear accumulation of FOXO3a , consistent with the finding that sustained nuclear FOXO3a is associated with poor prognosis .
Disturbances in expression of apoptosis - associated proteins take part in the development and progression of many human malignancies .
Cobalt chloride , a stimulator of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) stimulated angiogenesis initiation at 10 ( - 9 ) M in fat tissue and the HPVAM , but at 10 ( - 10 ) M blood vessel growth was stimulated only in the fat assay .
This study aimed to explore the correlation between the expression of VEGF - C in TAMs and lymphatic metastasis in human oral squamous - cell carcinoma ( OSCC ) .
Here , we discuss the possibility for MMPs to contribute to pericyte recruitment at six levels : ( 1 ) direct promotion of pericyte invasion by extracellular matrix degradation ; ( 2 ) stimulation of pericyte proliferation and protection against apoptosis by modification of the ECM ; ( 3 ) activation of pericytes through the release of growth factor bound to the ECM ; ( 4 ) transactivation of angiogenic cell surface receptor ; ( 5 ) propagation of angiogenic signalling as cofactor ; and ( 6 ) recruitment of bone marrow - derived stem cells .
The presence of bFGF in the extracellular compartment of a diverse variety of organs may play a role in angiogenesis .
Our objectives were to determine the safety and efficacy of rofecoxib in treating acute haemarthrosis , chronic synovitis , target joints and pain .
HIF - 2alpha expression in human fetal paraganglia and neuroblastoma : relation to sympathetic differentiation , glucose deficiency , and hypoxia .
Historically , PDT has been limited by a lack of suitable photosensitive dyes .
In tissues with a normally high metabolic turnover such as skeletal and cardiac muscle , even mild ischemia causes hypoxia , acidosis , and depressed function ( contractility ) and eventually threatens myocyte viability and organ function .
In particular , the activity of angiogenic factors is crucial for tumor progression .
BACKGROUND : Inhibition of angiogenesis reverses rodent obesity .
Moreover , TKI - 31 dose - dependently suppressed HUVEC tube formation .
The bFGF loaded PLGA - heparin microspheres were tested for in vitro release and in vivo angiogenic activity .
HKa and D5 reduce the localization of paxillin to the focal adhesions after S1P and VEGF stimulation .
After tumor implantation the animals were examined weekly during several months for the appearance of metastases .
Anagen - associated angiogenesis offers an attractive model for identifying the physiologic controls of cutaneous angiogenesis , and an interesting system for screening the effects of potential antiangiogenic drugs in vivo .
We have used a quantitative assay in vitro to demonstrate that mast cells release a factor that significantly increases bovine capillary endothelial cell migration .
Curcumin ( 1 , 7 - bis ( 4 - hydroxy - 3 - methoxyphenyl ) - 1 , 6 - heptadiene - 3 , 5 - dione ) , is extracted from the plant Curcuma longa .
The vertebrate vasculature develops in remarkably similar fashion in all vertebrates .
Four drugs with potential anti - peritumoral brain edema activity were studied using the VX2 rabbit brain tumor model .
BACKGROUND : Mesenchymal stem cells ( MSCs ) transplantation is of therapeutic potential after ischemic injury in both experimental and clinical studies .
Analysis of promoter hypermethylation of the APC gene was also carried out using methylation - specific PCR ( MS - PCR ) .
BACKGROUND : Breast cancers have higher than normal glucose metabolism , but the mechanism of glucose entry into these tumors is not well understood .
In addition , expression of c - MYC from a constitutive promoter also abrogated the STAT3 - mediated arrest , and strikingly , cooperated with OSM to promote anchorage - independent growth ( AIG ) , a property associated with malignant transformation .
Recently , significant improvements in survival have been achieved through the use of combination chemotherapy and monoclonal antibody regimens .
Mean tumour volume was significantly lower in the DMBA - vitamin E group compared to the tumour control group .
The aim of this study was to investigate the molecular pathway of the cytotoxic effect of paclitaxel in human cervical cancer cell lines .
Blockade of angiogenesis is an important approach for cancer treatment and prevention .
These observations provide evidence that enhanced proliferation in N - ras - transformed cells compromises teratocarcinoma cell differentiation by a mechanism that transiently suppresses homeobox gene induction and implies a central role for homeobox genes in RA - induced cell differentiation .
The average IMVD had statistical difference in histological grading ( P less than 0 . 01 ) , and analysis by one to one , the average IMVD had statistical difference between high and median grading .
Finally , dominant - negative inhibition of Mitf resulted in profound resistance of melanocytes and melanoma cells to HGF - dependent matrix invasion , suggesting a physiologic role for this pathway in melanocytic development and melanoma .
In contrast , bFGF mRNA was not altered by alinidine treatment .
Loss of expression was frequent in both EOGC and conventional gastric cancers .
Tetracyclines are antimicrobial agents that can suppress MP activity in a variety of tissues , including gingiva , bone , and cartilage .
Inhibitors of Hedgehog signaling have been the subject of intense research .
It may modulate cellular energy metabolism or be a substrate in a chemical reaction generating reactive oxygen species .
The ability to positively and negatively regulate many of these pathways , combined with feedback signalling from these pathways to p53 , demonstrates the reciprocal and flexible nature of the regulation , facilitating a diverse range of responses to metabolic stress .
The Akt / mTOR pathway assures the synthesis of HIF - 1alpha protein in a glucose - and reoxygenation - dependent manner in irradiated tumors .
Treatment with the combination of 1B3 and DC101 in BxPC - 3 xenograft - bearing mice resulted in tumor regression in 58 % of mice compared to that in 18 % of mice treated with DC101 alone .
Eligible patients had CNV in which the central boundary of the lesion was between 1 and 199 microm from the geometric center of the foveal avascular zone ( FAZ ) .
PURPOSE : Members of the transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - beta superfamily play critical roles in regulation of various cellular functions .
There have been no reports showing the relativity of invasive breast cancer and the desmoplastic reaction by a quantitative analysis of the myofibroblasts that were an important player in the desmoplastic reaction .
A selective marker of normal and neoplastic mesothelial cells in serous effusions .
Ectopic expression of TLX in the U87MG glioma cell line and Ink4a / Arf - deficient mouse astrocytes ( Ink4a / Arf ( - / - ) astrocytes ) induced cell proliferation with a concomitant increase in cyclin D expression , and accelerated foci formation in soft agar and tumor formation in in vivo transplantation assays .
The lack of treatment for worried - well patients with high - grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia combined with issues of recurrence and hormone resistance in prostate cancer survivors remains a major public health obstacle .
Silencing of directional migration in roundabout4 knockdown endothelial cells .
Our results indicated that HTPB was a pan - HDAC inhibitor in suppressing cell viability specifically of lung cancer cells but not of the normal lung cells .
Topo I expression was described as the percentage of cells staining positive for topo I , along with the intensity and localization of the staining .
Roles of brca2 ( fancd1 ) in oocyte nuclear architecture , gametogenesis , gonad tumors , and genome stability in zebrafish .
In contrast , multicellular spheroids mimic heterogeneous cellular behavior and the consequent functional characteristics of in vivo solid tumors , and serve as important in vitro model to investigate tumor biology and responses to potential therapeutic agents .
Thalidomide had no direct effect on endothelial cells .
Ischemia , involving restricted blood flow to tissues is the most common consequence of vessel dysfunction resulting in the disruption of oxygen and nutrient delivery and the accumulation of waste metabolites .
Loss of opticin expression by this tissue is associated with and could contribute towards neoplastic transformation .
The effects of IGF - 1 are mediated principally through the IGF - 1R but are modulated by complex interactions with multiple IGF binding proteins that themselves are regulated by phosphorylation , proteolysis , polymerization , and cell or matrix association .
Furthermore , the Matrigel plugs with AdCMV . VEGF165 demonstrated hemoglobin content fourfold higher than the plugs with AdCMV . beta gal .
An additional anti - tumour effect was demonstrated when L - NAME was added to the synergistic combination of melphalan and TNF ( responses increased from 70 to 100 % ) .
Patients were followed up at 1 month and 3 months after treatment and thereafter at 3 - month intervals .
BACKGROUND : The murine nm23 gene suppresses the metastatic behavior of malignant rodent tumor lines , and reduced nm23 expression correlates with increased likelihood of lymph node metastases in human breast cancers .
There were significant differences in s - VEGF between the RCC patients and the controls ( 207 . 3 + / - 32 . 9 vs . 71 . 5 + / - 9 . 1 pg / ml , mean + / - SE ) ( P less than 0 . 005 ) , between the tumor - bearing renal veins and the contralateral ones ( P less than 0 . 01 ) , between the pre - and post - nephrectomy situations ( P less than 0 . 01 ) and among the various parameters of tumor status such as tumor extent ( P less than 0 . 001 ) and existence of metastasis ( P less than 0 . 001 ) .
BMECs transfected with hTERT alone were functionally and phenotypically normal .
In addition , LMP1 plays pleiotropic roles in cell growth arrest , differentiation , and apoptosis , depending on the background of the target cells .
COX - 2 protein was detected in eight of the 12 carcinomas , whereas PPARgamma protein was detected in only two cases .
9E3 / CEF4 mRNA was expressed in chicken peripheral blood monocytes , and its expression was stimulated by incubation of the monocytes with lipopolysaccharide or phorbol myristic acetate .
Anti - endosialin was capable of preventing pericyte tube formation in culture and inhibited migration .
Constitutive expression of a transfected Hox 1 . 4 gene under the control of a simian virus 40 promotor leads to differentiated cell morphology similar to that of the RA - induced phenotype and restores the growth - inhibitory effects of RA in N - ras - transformed cells .
Treatment with 317615 x 2HCl alone increased the lifespan of animals bearing intraperitoneal SKOV - 3 xenografts by 1 . 9 fold compared with untreated control animals .
Moreover , we suppose that knowledge about heterogeneity between primary and metastatic tumor might help to understand mechanisms of oral cancer progression .
VEGF165 mediates formation of complexes containing VEGFR - 2 and neuropilin - 1 that enhance VEGF165 - receptor binding .
These results suggest that Cum - OOH - induced carcinogenesis is accompanied by increased AP - 1 activation and changes in antioxidant status .
Brn - 3a , a member of the POU gene family ( so - called because of the similarity with the group of transcription factors Pit , Oct , and Unc ) , was found in neuronal cells engaged in the transcription activity of the p1 and p2 promoters of the most powerful antiapoptotic gene , namely , Bcl - 2 .
Correlation analysis was performed between blood vessel parameters and the amount of new bone formed during distraction .
[ Autologous bone marrow stem cell or peripheral blood endothelial progenitor cell therapy in patients with peripheral limb ischaemia ]
Placed in the framework of other recently published work , the observations of Villani et al . both raise questions about the cell of origin for basal cell cancers and define additional putative therapeutic and preventive targets for this disease .
The data suggest that various metastasis profiles exist .
OBJECTIVES : Bisphosphonates have been used successfully in the treatment of hypercalcemia and to reduce skeletal - related complications of bone metastases .
MTSS1 ( metastasis suppressor - 1 ) was first identified as a metastasis suppressor missing in metastatic bladder carcinoma cell lines .
The TGF - beta type II receptor in chronic myeloid leukemia : analysis of microsatellite regions and gene expression .
RESULTS : Overexpression of MDM2 by manual counts was seen in 44 % ( n = 47 ) of the patients .
In accord with our hypothesis , in a variety of different FH - deficient tissues , including a novel murine model of Fh1 - deficient smooth muscle , we show a striking and progressive upregulation of a tumorigenic metabolic profile , as manifested by increased PKM2 and LDHA protein .
Rise in lactate concentrations over baseline levels in the first 30 minutes of the glucose tolerance test were significantly higher in dogs with lymphoma ( P = 0 . 011 ) .
We show that transgenic expression of CDKs in the embryonic oral ectoderm is specifically retained in undifferentiated cells from the pars intermedia of the adenohypophysis .
The differences in IL - 12 levels were unremarkable .
An anti - vascular endothelial growth factor strategy may reduce tissue damage associated with radiation vasculopathy and neuropathy .
Thus , we identified for the first time that honokiol provided therapeutic benefit not only by direct effects on tumor cells and antiangiogenesis but also by inhibiting lymphangiogenesis and metastasis via the VEGFR - 3 pathway .
The mean final visual acuity in eyes with higher refractive error at baseline ( greater than - 17 diopters ) was significantly better ( P = 0 . 014 ) than that in eyes with lower refractive error ( - 6 to - 10 diopters ) .
Phenolic fraction of tobacco smoke condensate potentiates benzo [ a ] pyerene diol epoxide - induced cell transformation : role of protein kinase C .
[ Radiologic - pathologic correlations in breast diseases ]
There was no significant association between an increased risk of cervical cancer and polymorphisms of the death pathway genes FAS and FASL .
We tested the epigenetic silencing hypothesis and evaluated the biological influence of KISS1 methylation on its expression and clinical relevance in bladder cancer .
The cytostatic drug doxorubicin is a well - known chemotherapeutic agent which is used in treatment of a wide variety of cancers .
Although Evi - 1 is thought to promote growth or block differentiation in some cell types , its biological functions have not been elucidated .
Angiogenic activity in samples of patients from the control group was generally inhibitory due to PEDF , and inhibition was blocked by neutralizing antibodies to PEDF .
In vivo effects of insulin on tumor and skeletal muscle glucose metabolism in patients with lymphoma .
Telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein complex critically involved in extending and maintaining telomeres .
Inhibition of STAT3 activation by expressing a dominant - negative STAT3 protein or a STAT3 - shRNA prevented the OSM - mediated arrest .
These data suggest that angiogenesis in operable non - small cell lung cancer is a major prognostic factor for survival and , among the parameters tested , is the only factor related to cancer cell migration to lymph nodes .
Three weeks later , 2 x 10 ( 6 ) cells from three groups were implanted into the scar .
Inhibition by retinoic acid of type IV collagenolysis and invasion through reconstituted basement membrane by metastatic rat mammary adenocarcinoma cells .
In the current article we demonstrate that TnI inhibits both bFGF - stimulated and basal levels of endothelial cell proliferation , and we hypothesize that this inhibition is occurring , at least in part , via an interaction of TnI with the cell - surface bFGF receptor on capillary endothelial cells .
The inhibition of migration by HKa is reversed by antibodies to urokinase - type plasminogen activator receptor .
In the present study the effects of the 48 - hour administration of granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor ( GM - CSF ) ( 100 U / mL ) or interleukin - 3 ( IL - 3 ) ( 100 U / mL ) on the proliferative activity of leukemic cells and on the intracellular metabolism and cytotoxic efficacy of a subsequent 12 - hour application of cytosine arabinoside ( ara - C ) at doses of 0 . 1 , 1 . 0 , 10 . 0 , and 100 . 0 mumol / L were evaluated on bone marrow cells from 17 patients with acute myeloid leukemia .
Thus , c - myc induction is a resistance factor and our findings suggest that tumors carrying low levels of c - Myc protein could be more responsive to vinca alkaloids treatment .
These data support a new model for how tumor cells trigger metastasis by perturbing pericyte - endothelial cell - cell interactions .
We show that HIF - 1alpha and VEGF are increased through A3 adenosine receptor stimulation , whereas the effects on IL - 8 are mediated via the A2B subtype .
The expression of MMP - 2 / 9 of AGS cells was inhibited by 2 . 0 microM of GA .
Expression of hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 was localized to immune and granulosa cells of normal ovarian tissue .
However , MKN - 28 , MKN - 45 , MKN - 74 , and SNU16 cells did not express membrane CXCR4 .
Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest is found at the end of this article .
Capillary diameters increased significantly during pregnancy , especially after 4 weeks , when large flattened sinusoids formed .
In contrast , both HER2 ( 4 / 12 ; 33 % ) and B ( 1 ) R ( 1 / 12 ; 8 . 3 % ) showed a low expression in invasive gallbladder carcinomas .
Apoptosis , or programmed cell death , is thought to play a role in the dichotomous behavior of neuroblastoma .
Prognostic value of HLA - DR expression and dendritic cell infiltration in gastric cancer .
Several reports have indicated that tetracyclines can suppress tumor MPs as well .
Bolus incubation was carried out to determine effects of doxorubicin accumulated during the first 3h , whereas continuous incubation allowed further ( continuous ) exposure to doxorubicin .
Nitric oxide ( NO ) is an important molecule in regulating tumour blood flow and stimulating tumour angiogenesis .
Targeting the PIM kinase family could provide a new avenue to overcome resistance against small - molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors .
We sought to test whether p53 could behave in a manner similar to known genes in a biological test system , and we demonstrate here that p53 can cooperate with the activated Ha - ras oncogene to transform normal embryonic cells .
These results suggest that doxorubicin is able to induce cell death by apoptosis only at particular dose and treatment conditions and imply a completely different cellular response following bolus or continuous exposure to doxorubicin .
The effect of ATX secretion on in vitro cell motility was variable .
Actinomycin - D , but not puromycin , also blocks progestin - dependent induction of TSP - 1 .
Accordingly , the rate of elimination of abnormal proteins was lower in cells lacking a functional VHL gene than in wtVHL - expressing cells .
Bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy is first - line therapy for stage IV disease .
The induction of Ets - 1 in ECs after denudation was regulated transcriptionally , and humeral factors released from injured ECs might not be responsible .
Vasostatin , the N - terminal domain of calreticulin , is a potent angiogenesis inhibitor .
Presence of blood vessels was confirmed with histology and electron microscopy .
CONCLUSION : Selective inhibition of iNOS by L - NIL inhibits angiogenesis in a hindlimb ischemic rat model .
Bevacizumab was discontinued in 2 patients because of nonfatal intracranial bleeding .
KISS1 transcript expression remained an independent prognosticator in multivariate analyses ( P = 0 . 017 ) .
Cancer stem cells ( CSC ) are predicted to be critical drivers of tumor progression due to their self - renewal capacity and limitless proliferative potential .
Runx2 and MYC collaborate in lymphoma development by suppressing apoptotic and growth arrest pathways in vivo .
MDA - MB - 231 cells alone or breast cancer samples did not express RANKL mRNA .
These assays yielded mainly the viral large T - antigen and , in particular , the associated cellular p53 as endogenous substrates .
We situate invasion within microecosystems comprising neoplastic cells as well as host cells .
Participation of p53 cellular tumour antigen in transformation of normal embryonic cells .
However , the underlying mechanism is poorly understood .
BALB - / MK - 2 mouse epidermal keratinocytes required epidermal growth factor for proliferation and terminally differentiated in response to high Ca2 + concentration .
Low - level X - radiation effects on functional vascular changes in Syrian hamster cheek pouch epithelium during hydrocarbon carcinogenesis .
The transfer of apoptosis genes to tumors constitutes one of the most promising strategies for cancer gene therapy .
UV - B - induced IL - 8 was constitutively expressed 60 days after irradiation in tumors implanted in mice .
In contrast , no leukemia was observed with a myb IRES virus , with spliced vectors containing v - erbA alone or v - erbA in combination with v - myb , nor with erbA IRES and erbA / myb IRES viruses produced in the absence of helper virus .
Less than 15 % of the glucose uptake was affected by the 1 , 2 , 3 - benzenetricarboxylate inhibition of the malate - citrate shuttle .
In contrast , continuous ( 24h ) treatment with doxorubicin reduced the number of living cells with no parallel raise in the amount of dead cells .
The association of fibrinogen levels with clinical / pathological findings and clinical outcome was evaluated .
Irreversible PHT cases were also more likely to show compensatory upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor and new small vessel formation at the sites of native vessel stenosis or occlusion ( p less than 0 . 001 ) .
One hundred mg / body / day of TS - 1 was orally administrated for 4 weeks .
However , the maximum decrease approached 100 % in stationary cultures versus approximately 75 % in growing cells .
Surprisingly , analysis of K5CDK4 and K5CDK2 transgenic mouse embryos showed CDK4 and CDK2 expression not only in the expected tissues , but also in the adenohypophysis .
METHODS : PTEN promoter methylation was detected in surgical specimens of CCMs ( n = 69 ) by methylation - specific polymerase chain reaction .
In addition , the hypothesis predicts that early detection , which is designed to find more patients without involved lymph nodes , may not be a synergistic strategy with adjuvant chemotherapy , which works best with positive lymph node patients .
The increased rate of glucose transport is dependent on the activity of pp60src , the transforming protein of Rous sarcoma virus .
In this communication , we describe an alternative approach that begins with teleology ; i . e . adaptive landscapes and selection pressures that promote emergence of aerobic glycolysis during the somatic evolution of invasive cancer .
Vitamin E inhibits experimental carcinogenesis and tumour angiogenesis .
Angiopoietin - 1 prevents VEGF - induced endothelial permeability by sequestering Src through mDia .
As such , sustained nuclear FOXO3a expression in breast cancer may culminate in cancer progression and the development of an aggressive phenotype similar to that observed in cytotoxic chemotherapy resistant breast cancer cell models .
Furthermore , specific downregulation of either caspase - 9 , Bax , or Bak by siRNA effectively reduced PARP cleavage and caspase - 3 activation .
The viral insert mapped to chromosome 17p11 . 2 - 12 , and cellular sequences were duplicated at the site of viral integration .
RESULTS : All patients completed therapy and tolerability was good .
However , other experimental data indicate that NF - kappaB can play a tumor suppressor role in certain settings and that it can be important in promoting an apoptotic signal downstream of certain cancer therapy regimens .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : We assessed response , toxicity , and biomarkers of angiogenesis to low - dose cyclophosphamide ( 50 mg p . o . o . d . ) and high - dose celecoxib ( 400 mg p . o . b . i . d . ) in adult patients with relapsed or refractory aggressive non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma in a multicenter phase II prospective study .
Here we report a zebrafish brca2 insertional mutant that shares phenotypes with human patients and identifies a novel brca2 function in oogenesis .
Using isogenic human mammary epithelial cells ( HMEC ) at different stages of neoplastic transformation , we found that OSM signaling suppressed c - MYC expression and engaged a p16 - and p53 - independent growth arrest that required STAT3 activity .
The apoptotic molecule bax is induced in p53 - mediated apoptosis , but bax is not induced in E2F - 1 - mediated apoptosis in glioma cells .
Although the importance of VEGF - A has been shown in renal carcinomas , the contribution of these new ligands in kidney tumors is not clear .
We will also discuss several patents regarding inhibitors of VEGF action in the present review .
The tumor cells also display enhanced expression of desmosomal and tight - junction proteins .
Hypoxia - inducible factor - 1 ( HIF - 1 ) is one of the key mammalian transcription factors and shows increased levels in both protein stability and intrinsic transcriptional activity during low oxygen tension .
One of these mechanisms is NF - kappaB pathway activation which in turn may contribute to tumor formation by providing anti - apoptotic survival signals to the epithelial cells .
This correlation was due to a higher number of blood vessels rather than to a larger size of the blood vessels .
METHODS : We assessed the role of CDC4 / FBXW7 in gastric cancer , through loss of heterozygosity ( LOH ) and multiplex ligation - dependent probe amplification ( MLPA ) on 47 flow - sorted gastric carcinomas including early - onset gastric cancers ( EOGC ) and xenografted conventional gastric carcinomas .
Given that PLCbeta3 is typically known as an effector of heterotrimeric G - proteins , our data demonstrate a unique crosstalk between the G - protein and receptor tyrosine kinase ( RTK ) axes and reveal a novel molecular mechanism of VEGF signaling and , thus , angiogenesis .
We observed a significant up - regulation of VEGF - B ( P = 0 . 002 ) but not VEGF - C ( P = 0 . 3 ) in neoplastic kidney compared with normal tissues .
Dietary conjugated linoleic acid ( CLA ) has been shown previously to inhibit rat mammary carcinogenesis .
OBJECTIVE : We transfected ovarian cancer cells and administered recombinant plasmid encoding hPNAS - 4 to nude mice bearing ovarian cancer , aiming to evaluate the effect of hPNAS - 4 against ovarian cancer in vitro and in vivo .
Functional significance of VEGF - a in human ovarian carcinoma : role in vasculogenic mimicry .
There is also an implicit assumption that a mechanistic understanding , although fundamentally reductionist , will nonetheless lead to a more profound teleological understanding of the need for altered metabolism in invasive cancers .
Sunitinib induces apoptosis in pheochromocytoma tumor cells by inhibiting VEGFR2 / Akt / mTOR / S6K1 pathways through modulation of Bcl - 2 and BAD .
As a consequence the cyclin D1 ( bcl - 1 ) gene is juxtaposed to the immunoglobulin heavy chain enhancer E mu .
In contrast , NIH 3T3 cells are non - tumorigenic but are ras - responsive and become metastatic when transfected with ras .
The present findings may be of importance to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying the spread of cancer via the lymphatics and explore the therapeutical strategy of honokiol on antilymphangiogenesis and antimetastasis .
The current data also suggest that administration of antiangiogenic reagents can prevent progression of pulmonary metastasis in osteosarcoma postoperatively .
By ruling out cell fusion , we clearly demonstrate the existence of an adult hemangioblast , but the differentiation of marrow stem cells toward the endothelial lineage is an extremely rare event .
This negative regulation is mediated by the cytoskeleton as the disruption of interactions between the PSMA cytoplasmic tail and the anchor protein filamin A decreases PSMA activity , integrin function , and PAK activation .
This elevation was verified at both the mRNA and protein levels .
Collectively , our results suggest that the loss of SEMA3 expression could be a hallmark of cancer progression .
When tumor cells possessed a high level of UK , laminin and type IV collagen , components of the basement membrane , disappeared from tumor tissues .
Surprisingly , the level of leukocyte adhesion in ear venules of mice with a large flank tumor was also reduced significantly .
OBJECTIVE : PTEN ( phosphatase and tensin homologue deleted on chromosome 10 ) is a tumor suppressor gene identified on human chromosome 10q23 .
The last 7 years have seen over seven times as many publications indexed by Medline dealing with pomegranate and Punica granatum than in all the years preceding them .
c - kit gene mutation may play a significant role in the pathogenesis of GIST and also may be a prognostic marker .
hTERT activity is associated with nodal metastases and cellular proliferation .
Many researchers have demonstrated that hematopoietic cells express many homeobox genes .
Sensitization to gimatecan - induced apoptosis by tumor necrosis factor - related apoptosis inducing ligand in prostate carcinoma cells .
Traditional coronary revascularization therapies such as coronary angioplasty or bypass graft surgery , act by restoring blood flow through the preexisting coronary vessels .
CCL16 may be specifically cross - linked to CCR1 expressed on endothelial cells .
These results suggest that T140 analogs have potential use for cancer therapy , and that small molecular CXCR4 antagonists could potentially replace neutralizing antibodies as anti - metastatic agents for breast cancer .
The up - regulation of Bid ( 57 . 5 % at 12 hours , P less than 0 . 0006 ) and inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor secretion ( 57 . 7 % at 24 hours , P less than 0 . 015 ; and 50 . 3 % at 48 hours , P less than 0 . 0006 ) could be partially attributed to the effects on HIF - 1alpha , because HIF - 1alpha small interfering RNAs produced similar effects .
Safety of verteporfin for treatment of subfoveal choroidal neovascular membranes associated with age - related macular degeneration .
CONCLUSIONS : Survivin functions as a novel upstream regulator of mitochondrial - dependent apoptosis , and molecular targeting of this pathway results in anticancer activity via a dual mechanism of induction of tumor cell apoptosis and suppression of angiogenesis .
However , DMI inhibited FA - induced , GR - mediated transcription when both agents were given together .
The beclin 1 autophagy gene is monoallelically deleted in 40 - 75 % of cases of human sporadic breast , ovarian , and prostate cancer .
Intriguingly , two recent papers have shed new light into this unexplored field , indicating that p53 plays a key role in TGF - beta - induced growth arrest and , unexpectedly , in the developmental effects of TGF - beta in early embryos .
Long - term carcinogen exposure exerts continuous pressure on key mechanisms that repair or eliminate carcinogen - damaged cells giving rise to selective failures that contribute to lung cancer .
MEK5 / ERK5 signaling modulates endothelial cell migration and focal contact turnover .
Shear stress - induced transcriptional suppression of Tie1 is mediated by a negative shear stress response element , localized in a region of 250 bp within the promoter .
[ Treatment of the diabetic foot by hyperbaric oxygen ]
Because of the imperfect association of nuclear grade and ECP % or MVD , CC - RCC was also grouped based on low / high MVD and ECP % .
Fractional tumor growth was determined and immunohistochemical analysis of tumors was used to determine degree of angiogenesis .
Transgenic mice engineered to express human endosialin bred on an immunocompromised background allowed the growth of human tumor xenografts .
In addition , Brk1 downregulation results in defective directional migration and invasive growth in renal cell carcinoma cells as well as in other tumor cell types .
The biological significance of this regulation of the two major pathways of energy generation by p53 remains to be seen .
Although several hypotheses for human carcinogenesis have been proposed , the specific genetic changes that cause normal cells to become cancer cells have not been identified .
DMI is suggested to inhibit the growth of Ca3 / 7 cells and to affect GR - mediated transcription .
The expression of Merlin protein was not associated with the pathological type , gender , P - TNM stage , differentiation and lymph node metastasis ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
The result showed that the mechanism of the FPC antineoplastic effect had an intimate relation with its induction to apoptosis and that the result of FPC inducing tumor cell apoptosis had the character of P53 independence .
Treatment of stage IV colorectal cancer is based on the type of prior therapy and patient - specific factors .
Investigating the causes of increased aerobic glycolysis in tumors ( Warburg Effect ) has gone in and out of fashion many times since it was first described almost a century ago .
Patients with high PLD ( > 8 . 0 ) showed higher rates of neck metastases than low PLD ( < = 8 . 0 ) ( 74 . 0 % vs 46 . 8 % , p = . 03 ) .
The insulin - conditioned RPE cell media stimulated capillary endothelial cell proliferation , an effect that was completely blocked by anti - VEGF neutralizing antibody .
The importance of this tumor suppressor in the mechanisms of carcinogenesis is beyond question as the inactivation of ARF suppressor activity leads to the rapid growth of neoplasia .
Increasing evidence suggests that elevated expression of ErbB - 3 is important for malignancy .
These data suggest that inhibition of B16F10 melanoma metastasis by rk - 2 was caused by inhibition of neovascularization and reduction of matrix metalloproteinase expression .
The angiogenic potency of adipose tissue was not related to its localization ( with an angiogenic stimulation in 60 % of SAT samples and 61 % of VAT samples ) or to adipocyte size or inflammatory infiltrate assessed in adipose samples before the graft on CAM .
The cells on 15 - microm wide strips completely aligned in the direction of the strip , and had significantly lower shape index than those in all other groups .
However , in Apc mutation - induced intestinal tumors , inactivation of Hes1 alone was sufficient for reducing tumor cell proliferation and inducing differentiation of tumor cells into all types of intestinal epithelial cells , but without affecting the homeostasis of normal crypts owing to genetic redundancy .
In the presence of high levels of VEGF , Ang - 2 also promotes rapid increase in capillary diameter , remodeling of the basal lamina , proliferation and migration of endothelial cells , and stimulates sprouting of new blood vessels .
In conclusion , the level of nm23 - H1 gene product expression does not significantly reveal prognostic value in node - positive lung cancers .
Here , we compared the sensitivity of RCC cells lacking VHL gene function with that of RCC cells expressing the wild - type VHL gene ( wtVHL ) after exposure to various stresses .
The mechanisms underlying the initial insulin - induced deterioration of retinal status in patients with diabetes remain unknown .
It has been suggested that the immortalized phenotype is mediated by an extra cellular factor .
A synergistic anti - tumour effect of L - NAME is observed in combination with melphalan and / or TNF using ILP .
Clinicopathologic data ( sex , age , Dukes ' stage , differentiation grade , survival status ) , p53 status , and PCNA status were statistically analyzed for association with topo I protein expression .
Left ventricular capillary length density ( mm / mm ( 3 ) ) increased gradually with alinidine administration ; a 15 % increase after 2 weeks and a 40 % increase after 3 weeks of alinidine treatment were documented .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) - induced receptor phosphorylation is the crucial step for initiating downstream signaling pathways that lead to angiogenesis or related pathophysiological outcomes .
In addition , the FAS - 670AG or GG genotype showed an increased incidence of node metastasis , but these findings were not statistically significant ( OR = 3 . 67 , 95 % CI = 0 . 96 - 14 . 00 , P = 0 . 059 ) .
The long latency of prostate cancer development provides an opportunity to intervene with agents of known mechanisms at various stages of disease progression .
A portion of bilateral radial bones of a rabbit were removed as free bone grafts , whose periostea were peeled off .
In this study , the role of the proprotein convertase furin in PLAG1 proto - oncogene - induced salivary gland tumorigenesis was investigated .
Migration of capillary endothelial cells is an important component of angiogenesis in vivo .
14 - 3 - 3zeta might be used as prognostic biomarkers for NSCLC .
These angiogenic activities are neutralized by a specific antibody against CCL16 .
Long - term peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) is limited by morphological changes of the peritoneal membrane .
Topoisomerase I protein expression in primary colorectal cancer and lymph node metastases .
Examination of checkpoint pathway activation upstream of Cdc25a revealed Erbb2 activation did not alter Ataxia Telangiectasia and Rad3 - related / Ataxia Telangiectasia Mutated activity but increased inhibitory phosphorylation of Chk1 - Ser ( 280 ) .
Mutations in the genes encoding the three other succinate dehydrogenase subunits ( SDHB , SDHC and SDHD ) have been identified in patients affected by familial or ' apparently sporadic ' paraganglioma and / or pheochromocytoma , an autosomal inherited cancer - susceptibility syndrome .
In order to study whether ATX expression affects motility - dependent processes such as invasion and metastasis , we stably transfected full - length ATX cDNA into two non - expressing cell lines , parental and ras - transformed NIH3T3 ( clone7 ) cells .
Microarray analysis indicated significant alterations in expression of genes related to the TGFbeta pathway , as well as genes involved in infertility and extracellular matrix production .
The high - mobility group A2 gene ( HMGA2 ) is one of the most frequently amplified genes in human cancers .
Prospective and retrospective case - controlled experimental designs are not suitable for testing the above hypothesis .
The mice were treated by intratumoral injection of 2 x 10 ( 9 ) pfu Ad - mEndostatin .
CONCLUSIONS / SIGNIFICANCE : These results suggested that intrinsic apoptotic pathway may involve in anti - tumor growth effects of HTPB in lung cancer cells .
METHODS : Immunohistochemistry was used to determine the distribution of opticin in normal human CBE , and in hyperplastic and neoplastic CBE lesions .
In the aqueous fluid , VEGF levels were increased in diabetics ( mean values : 501 vs . 367 pg / ml ; p = 0 . 05 ) , compared to controls .
At univariate analysis , overexpression of c - erbB2 did not affect either DFS or OAS ; tamoxifen had a greater effect on reducing the risk of recurrence than of death .
Inhibitors of Akt and P13 - kinase , the upstream activator of Akt , block endothelial cell migration and disrupt paxillin localization to the focal adhesions after stimulation with VEGF and S1P .
Antisera to bovine u - PA blocked the increase in migration associated with increased c - src expression .
In the pituitary and pancreatic islets , phosphorylation of the retinoblastoma ( Rb ) protein at both CDK2 and CDK4 / 6 sites was increased in p18 ( - / - ) and Men1 ( + / - ) cells and was further increased in p18 ( - / - ) ; Men1 ( + / - ) cells .
The transformation of normal melanocytes , or melanocyte stem cells , to melanoma , is a complex process involving multiple mechanisms .
Overall , paclitaxel exerts its anti - tumour effects on cervical cancer cells by inducing apoptosis through intrinsic pathway , and rapamycin targeted to mTOR can sensitise paclitaxel - resistant cervical cancer cells .
This study uses quantitative histomorphometry and double - immunohistologic detection techniques for the demarcation of proliferating endothelial cells , to show that synchronized hair follicle cycling in adolescent C57BL / 6 mice is associated with substantial angiogenesis , and that inhibiting angiogenesis in vivo by the intraperitoneal application of a fumagillin derivative retards experimentally induced anagen development in these mice .
Lipid / cholesterol - lowering agents , diet and antiplatelet adherence ( aspirin ) therapy may help slow the progression of vessel disease in some instances ; but surgical reconstruction may be the only option in advanced stages , and even this is not always an option .
Topo I protein expression was detected in 127 ( 51 % ) samples , including 24 . 4 % with > 50 % positive tumor cells .
Infection of human or murine cells with murine leukemia viruses rapidly increases the expression of a number of genes that belong to the immunoglobulin superfamily and are involved in T - lymphocyte activation , including the class I major histocompatibility complex antigens .
In these settings TNF demonstrates potent and selective activity on the tumor vascular bed , which strongly improves tumor response .
2G7 transiently inhibited growth of established MDA - 231 subcutaneous tumors .
c - erb B2 overexpression decreases the benefit of adjuvant tamoxifen in early - stage breast cancer without axillary lymph node metastases .
20 - Hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid ( 20 - HETE ) is formed by the omega - hydroxylation of arachidonic acid by cytochrome P450 4A and 4F enzymes , and it induces angiogenic responses in vivo .
Increased levels of PAI - 1 were associated with a decreased survival in squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) X2 = 5 . 72 , p = 0 . 017 ( n = 74 ) .
SMI496 , but not a control compound , interfered with angiogenesis in vivo by reversibly inhibiting sprouting from the axial vessels .
In contrast , the incidence and density of somatostatin receptors in peritumoral vessels was low in well - differentiated gastrointestinal and bronchial carcinoids , in contrast to the high density of such receptors in the carcinoid tumor tissue .
Inhibition of either PARP or caspase activity blocked magnolol - induced apoptosis , supporting the involvement of the caspases and PARP .
Overexpression of Evi - 1 increased Pbx1 expression in hematopoietic stem / progenitor cells .
Recently , it was shown that Stat3 is activated through novel and noncanonical mechanisms , including phosphorylation at S727 .
In contrast , administration of the NAD ( P ) H oxidase inhibitor apocynin had no effect to the proliferative response to 20 - HETE .
VEGF - A ( 165 ) , B , C , Flt - 1 , and KDR were analyzed .
Our group seeks to determine the basic mechanisms underlying ES wound therapy , an area where understanding is currently limited .
Early relapse with distant metastasis often is observed in patients with cancer after resection of the primary tumor .
KISS1 hypermethylation was frequent in bladder cancer cells analyzed by methylation - specific PCR and bisulfite sequencing and was associated with low gene expression , being restored in vitro by demethylating azacytidine .
The proliferative effects of 20 - HETE were markedly inhibited by a VEGF - neutralizing antibody .
Converging studies from many investigators indicate that RUNX1 has a critical role in the correct maintenance of essential cellular functions during embryonic development and after birth .
Likewise , in diabetics without proliferation , angiogenic activity was also blocked by antibodies to PEDF .
The most common toxicity was skin rash ( 40 % ) ; myelosuppression and gastrointestinal side effects were uncommon .
Comparison between cells revealed different apoptosis kinetics : accumulation of cells in sub - G1 phase and poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase cleavage occurred earlier in LoVo - mycANS .
These results indicate that induction of SAPKs by hypoxia regulates HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression in head and neck carcinoma cell lines .
The tumor may present with widespread metastases that are unresponsive to aggressive treatment .
Finally , we discuss future directions for identifying the appropriate patients for therapy , developing reliable markers of efficacy of treatment , and combating resistance to Hedgehog pathway inhibitors .
The mode of Ca2 + entry regulating cell shape is unknown .
We quantified CYR61 , CTGF , WISP - 1 , and NOV mRNA expression levels in samples from sixty - six primary gliomas and five normal brain samples using quantitative real - time PCR assay .
We have used retroviral - mediated gene delivery to effect sustained autocrine expression of TIMP - 3 in murine neuroblastoma and melanoma tumor cells in order to further examine the ability of TIMPs to inhibit angiogenesis in vivo .
Three vascular grades were defined with appraisal by eye and by Chalkley counting : high ( Chalkley score 7 - 12 ) , medium ( 5 - 6 ) , and low ( 2 - 4 ) .
Roles of cell adhesion molecules mediating the interaction of cancer and endothelial cells in tumor angiogenesis were investigated using new in vitro and in vivo model systems with a cultured murine endothelial cell line ( F - 2 ) and human cultured epidermoid cancer cells ( A431 ) .
BACKGROUND : Although many children with CHD develop pulmonary vascular disease , it is unclear why this complication is reversible after complete repair in some cases but irreversible in others .
Notch receptors and ligands ( Jagged and Delta - like ) play a critical role in this process in addition to VEGF .
In this study , we have investigated gene knockdown analysis of endothelial Robos , in particular roundabout 4 ( robo4 ) , the predominant Robo in endothelial cells using small interfering RNA technology in vitro .
The parameters considered are the number of platelets and their aggregability , prothrombin and partial thromboplastin times , plasma fibrinogen concentration and tumor cell procoagulant activity .
These results show that STX243 is a potent in vivo drug and could be clinically effective at treating a number of oncological conditions .
These results indicate that Pbx1 is a target gene of Evi - 1 involved in Evi - 1 - mediated leukemogenesis .
Taken together , these data suggest that signal - controlled activation of SRF , MRTF - A , and CBP provides a novel connection between mechanical stimuli and angiogenic gene expression .
PEDF is an important negative regulator of angiogenic activity of aqueous humor .
Treatment with 25 mg / kg cyclopamine significantly attenuated BrdU incorporation in tumor cells threefold ( P less than 0 . 001 ) , in tumor related endothelial cells threefold ( P = 0 . 004 ) , and delayed tumor growth by 4 days .
Conditioned media prepared from colon cells treated with an adenosine analog increased human umbilical vein endothelial cell migration .
CONCLUSION : IMVD may be an important indicator to predict cervical lymphatic metastasis in LSCC .
Furthermore , gonadotropin - and / or estrogen - mediated maintenance of SEMA3 expression could control ovarian cancer angiogenesis and metastasis .
2 - BE is a hemolytic agent that induces hemangiosarcomas in mice .
Western blot was performed to detect the effect of curcumin on the expression of uPA .
The down - regulation of p21WAF1 closely correlated with poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase cleavage and CPP32 activation .
Since the prognosis of locally advanced and metastatic diseases is poor , increased understanding of the pathogenesis of NPC would be important for discovering novel markers for patients ' management .
These effects of alpha - MSH may have important regulatory functions in extracellular matrix composition , wound healing , or angiogenesis .
Levels of pro - angiogenic vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and angiogenic inhibitor pigment epithelium - derived factor ( PEDF ) were determined .
This finding may be explained by a stimulatory effect of GM - CSF and IL - 3 on ara - C phosphorylating enzymes and a more rapid incorporation of ara - CTP into the DNA of leukemic blasts .
Inhibition of autophagy potentiates the antitumor effect of the multikinase inhibitor sorafenib in hepatocellular carcinoma .
Here , we show that the N - acetyltransferase arrest - defect 1 protein ( ARD1 ) functions as a unique AR regulator in PCa cells .
Potentiation of camptothecin - induced apoptosis by TRAIL appears dependent on cooperation between extrinsic and intrinsic pathways , as documented by loss of the sensitization to apoptosis following reduction of caspase 8 after small interfering RNA transfection .
We performed immunohistochemical staining of EphA2 and E - cadherin with EphA2 and E - cadherin monoclonal antibodies in samples from 194 primary lesions of colorectal cancer .
METHODS : We analyzed the hypermethylation status and expression of the gene and 12q13 . 1 loss of heterozygosity in 31 PCNSLs .
VEGF regulates angiogenesis , which is also a fundamental event in the process of tumor growth and metastatic dissemination .
The organism prevents malignant transformation by assuring accurate DNA repair before cell division , by forcing the death of cells with excessive DNA damage , and by placing limits on the replicative lifespans of most somatic cells .
The lead oxide group revealed extensive growth of blood vessels from the latissimus graft into the experimental fat pad .
Because failure of endothelial cell apoptosis might lead to intimal proliferation and lack of reversibility of PHT , we investigated this and other key markers of vasoactivity and angiogenesis in subjects with PHT and CHD .
Modulation of invasion within such systems is ascribed to balances between promoter and suppressor pathways .
Cox proportional hazards multivariate analysis ( MVA ) was used to determine the relation of MDM2 to the endpoints .
This work illustrates alternate means to regulate Src - family kinases , and suggests that Cbl may be able to suppress many signaling pathways that are activated in various proliferative syndromes including cancer .
Comparisons of presymposium and postsymposium responses and between the 2 groups of attendees indicated that the pediatric dentistry and endodontic communities agree that formocresol will be replaced as a primary tooth pulpotomy agent , that mineral trioxide is the first choice to take its place , that IPT in primary teeth holds hope as a replacement for pulpotomy , and that IPT is an acceptable pulp therapy technique for cariously involved young permanent teeth .
Whole body glucose use was 55 % lower in patients than in control subjects ( 17 + / - 3 mumol / kg / minute versus 38 + / - 3 mumol / kg / minute , P = 0 . 002 ) , consistent with insulin resistance in cancer .
They exhibited specific and high - affinity binding of somatostatin - 14 , somatostatin - 28 and octreotide , suggesting a preferential expression of the SSTR2 receptor subtype .
However , the pathophysiologic role of CD154 expressed by tumor cells remains unclear .
RNA and DNA viruses can be transforming and tumourigenic agents .
The structural and functional development of the pulmonary system is dependent upon appropriate early vascularization of the embryonic lung .
In an effort to decipher the mechanism by which HGF up - regulates its receptor , we found that c - Met is a direct transcriptional target of Mitf .
Involved introns contain homology to recombination signal sequence ( RSS ) heptamers present in the V ( D ) J region of the T lymphocyte receptor gene .
Activation of the myc gene may play a role in transformation by promoting growth of the cells bearing the rearranged chromosomes .
Besides regulating leukocyte trafficking in normal and injured tissues , several chemokines may positively or negatively regulate angiogenesis .
Neuroblastoma is derived from SNS precursors .
Treatment was discontinued at patient request or if there was no measurable response to therapy .
Following implantation within the striatum , the volume of the primary fibroblast grafts , stained immunohistochemically for fibronectin , does not differ significantly at 3 and 8 weeks .
The therapeutic efficacy of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS was determined by monitoring tumor volume , survival rate , and degree of neovascularization after treatment in these models .
On day 18 , half of each group was treated with 5 x 10 ( 4 ) U gammaIFN , or saline intraperitoneally for 3 d .
For efficacy studies , nude mice bearing orthotopically implanted tumors derived from breast cancer cell line MDA - MB - 435 were treated with galectin - 3C or a vehicle control i . m . twice daily for 90 days .
EC9706 and EC109 cells were incubated with varying concentrations of aspirin and nimesulide , and the effects on cell proliferation and apoptosis were monitored by 3 - ( 4 , 5 - dimethyl - thiazol - 2yl ) - 2 , 5 - diphenyltetrazolium bromide and flow cytometry .
On the 8th day of serum - free culturing , only the higher molecular weight protein - band of about 45 kDa was clearly induced and accumulated in detached cells and apoptotic bodies in which PARP was activated .
OBJECTIVE : To determine the impact of thalidomide and angiostatin on tumor growth , angiogenesis , and apoptosis in a xenograft model of cervical cancer .
A significant amount of type I HK RNA was also found expressed in cancer cell lines .
The 5T4 antigen is a transmembrane glycoprotein with a 310 amino acid extracellular domain and a 44 amino acid cytoplasmic domain .
The resulting mechanistic model confirms previous work proposing that 2 - BE induces macrophage activation and inflammation in the liver .
Patients had primarily relapsed diffuse large B - cell lymphoma ( 63 % ) were heavily pretreated ( median of three regimens ) and high risk ( 79 % international prognostic index , greater than or = 2 ) and 34 % were relapsed after autologous stem cell transplant .
We discuss cell lineages , proliferation and interactions of endothelial cells , pericytes and smooth muscle cells , and macrophages .
Blood and vascular disorders underlie a plethora of pathologic conditions and are the single most frequent cause of human disease .
Hypermethylation was also frequently observed in a large series of bladder tumors ( 83 . 1 % , n = 804 ) .
Here , we report the cDNA cloning of the corresponding oncogene , designated UFO , in allusion to the as yet unidentified function of its protein .
Up - regulation of PFKFB2 expression was mediated by the direct binding of ligand - activated androgen receptor to the PFKFB2 promoter .
In uremic patients , NOS activity is positively correlated with the duration of PD .
In addition , it inhibits human umbilical vein endothelial cell proliferation , migration , adhesion , tubular network formation , and bFGF - induced neovascularization in a chick chorioallantoic membrane .
Ovarian cancer is a highly metastatic disease .
The p75 receptor belongs to the tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) family of death receptors and has been suggested as a receptor that mediates apoptosis in neuronal and NB cells .
RESULTS : In comparison with controls , intratumoral injection of Ad - mEndostatin significantly inhibited the tumor growth and metastasis , and prolonged the survival rate of mice ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
Orthogonal polarization spectral imaging showed no difference in functional capillary density between the scaffolds cultured on chorioallantoic membranes .
Troponin I ( TnI ) is a novel cartilage - derived angiogenesis inhibitor , first demonstrated by Moses et al .
Metastatic NIH 3T3 x LTA cell hybrids express 72 kDa type IV collagenase .
Overexpression of AP - 2A resulted in a decreased proliferation rate and inhibitin of colony formation .
Gene enhancement with IGF - 1 improved donor cell proliferation , survival , and engraftment after cell transplantation , perhaps mediated by enhanced angiogenesis and reduced apoptosis .
Liposomal honokiol inhibits VEGF - D - induced lymphangiogenesis and metastasis in xenograft tumor model .
Chronic wounds are a major secondary complication for many people with impaired mobility .
This contrasts with recent evidence suggesting that the Wave complex may function as an invasion suppressor in epithelial cancers .
Individuals with MEN IIA should therefore undergo early prophylactic thyroidectomy once the diagnosis is confirmed by molecular genetic testing .
Tissue integration and implant characteristics of various biomaterials commonly used for inguinal hernia repair have not been studied extensively .
Additional experiments revealed FT to be effective component of UFT ; uracil remained ineffective in the inhibition of angiogenesis .
Cells transformed by Rous sarcoma virus release transforming growth factors .
Active SHP - 2 then dephosphorylates VEGFR - 2 at Y951 , Y996 and Y1059 , but not Y1175 .
Role of thrombin in angiogenesis and tumor progression .
Although tumor cells can exploit cytokine signaling to promote growth , invasion , and metastasis , the response of normal and premalignant epithelial cells to cytokines present in a developing tumor microenvironment remains unclear .
This Review will discuss the rationale for using antiangiogenic compounds and will focus on large molecules , such as antibodies , that target the VEGF system .
The transplantation of old donor - derived MSCs attenuated apoptosis of cardiomyocytes in the peri - infarct region compared with the control group and the effect was elevated in young donor - derived MSCs ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
Ischemic cardiac muscle is additionally vulnerable because reperfusion is essential for survival but reperfusion itself poses additional stress principally from increased production of free radicals during reoxygenation .
In in vivo experiments , the metastasis and survival of tumor - engrafted mice were monitored .
A small peptide derived from Flt - 1 ( VEGFR - 1 ) functions as an angiogenic inhibitor .
The study population comprised 23 patients with histopathologically proven primary brain tumours ; 14 had high - grade gliomas , and nine low - grade brain neoplasms .
Thus , angiogenesis is a physiologic event in normal postnatal murine skin , apparently is dictated by the hair follicle , and appears to be required for normal anagen development .
In addition , AglRhz induced activation of caspase - 3 and poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase ( PARP ) , and DNA fragmentation in HT - 29 cells , leads to induction of apoptosis as well as suppression of tumorigenicity of HT - 29 cells .
It is questionable , whether collateral arteries also form de novo in ischemic vascular diseases .
Radiologic defect area measurement results at 0 , 4 , and 16 weeks were compared between the groups .
A similar trend was noted in the SCCVII tumor model .
RESULTS : No correlation was found between tumor prognosis and EGFR , ICAM - 1 or Fas .
The specific CD47 - activating peptide , 4N1K , similarly induced cell death in human brain microvascular endothelial cells .
The overexpression of Tsg101 resulted in increased phosphorylation of the epidermal growth factor receptor and downstream activation of MAP kinases .
Combination of ATX expression with ras transformation produced cells with greatly amplified tumorigenesis and metastatic potential compared to ras - transformed controls .
Protein kinase activities in immune complexes of simian virus 40 large T - antigen and transformation - associated cellular p53 protein .
Endothelial cell proliferation plays a pivotal role in the process of angiogenesis .
The apparent molecular weights of the collagenolytic enzymes were determined by electrophoresis of cell extracts and concentrated conditioned medium in type IV collagen - embedded polyacrylamide gels followed by renaturation and activation of the enzymes within the gels .
However , treatment of cells with SB202190 or SP600125 , inhibitors of p38 MAPK and JNK respectively , did not affect HUVEC migration .
No significant association was demonstrated between VEGF - B , VEGF - C , flt - 1 , KDR , and flt - 4 with patient sex , patient age , or tumor size ( P greater than 0 . 05 ) .
All of the 4 tumors that were CD40 - negative , were stage I tumors , without any evidence of regional or distant metastasis .
However , the strong increase of angiogenesis in AOGEN - transgenic mice compared with mice with normal ANG II levels suggests additional stimulatory activity .
Recently VEGF - B and VEGF - C , two new VEGF family members , have been identified that bind to the tyrosine kinase receptors flt - 1 ( VEGFR1 ) , KDR ( VEGFR2 ) , and flt - 4 ( VEGFR3 ) .
The increased migration and invasion resulted from up - regulation of expression and activities of MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 .
[ Role of the tumor suppressor ARF in oncogenesis ]
Careful selection of patients may be necessary before designing therapeutic strategies using either p53 or E2F - 1 as a therapeutic tools for glioma patients .
These data demonstrate for the first time that hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 is significantly overexpressed in ovarian tumors and suggest LL - 37 may contribute to ovarian tumorigenesis through direct stimulation of tumor cells , initiation of angiogenesis and recruitment of immune cells .
To sum up , our data suggest that the inhibition of metabolic pathways offers a novel and powerful therapeutic approach , which simultaneously inhibits tumor cell proliferation and tumor - induced angiogenesis .
The antiproliferative and anti - migratory mechanisms of HTPB were investigated by cell proliferation , flow cytometry , DNA ladder , caspase activity , Rho activity , F - actin polymerization , and gelatin - zymography for matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) .
Class - 3 semaphorins , semaphorin - 3B ( SEMA3B ) and semaphorin - 3F ( SEMA3F ) , illustrate their effects by forming a complex with neuropilins ( NP - 1 or NP - 2 ) and plexins .
METHODS : This review discusses our current understanding of the mechanisms of TGF - beta signaling , focusing on the roles of TGF - beta in regulation of vascular wall cells and on the regulation of TGF - beta superfamily signals by inhibitory Smads .
Clinical evaluations performed at all study visits included measurement of best - corrected Snellen visual acuity , slit - lamp biomicroscopy , and fundus fluorescein angiography .
The elimination half - life when administered i . m . was found to be 3 . 0 h in the serum and 4 . 3 h in the cellular fraction of the blood .
These results indicate that VEGF - C plays a critical role in lymph node metastasis , in addition to serving as a platform to test the efficacy of various therapeutic modalities against lymph node metastasis .
Specimens of NSCLC and adjacent normal lung tissues were collected from 110 patients .
In contrast , a selective COX - I inhibitor , SC - 560 , had no effect on serum progesterone concentrations .
The results imply that various different proteins may lead to HCC metastasis together .
Angiostatin and thalidomide both inhibited tumor growth by about 55 % .
In cell culture , the compound 317615 2HCl , a potent inhibitor of VEGF - stimulated HUVEC proliferation , was not very effective against MX - 1 breast cancer cells ( IC50 = 8 . 1 microM ) or SKOV - 3 ovarian carcinoma cells ( IC50 = 9 . 5 microM ) .
Toxicity , pharmacokinetic , and organ biodistribution studies were performed in nude mice .
PURPOSE : Spironolactone has recently been shown to have suppressive effects on several immunoactive and proinflammatory cytokines .
An angiostatin - mimetic activity has recently been observed using a polyclonal antibody against the beta catalytic subunit of ATP synthase .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : To evaluate the antiangiogenic activity of EPOX , we did cell viability , cell cycle , tube formation assay in vitro , and Matrigel plug assay in vivo .
The proteins with differential expression were analyzed in 40 undifferentiated NPC paraffin - embedded specimens .
The effects of 3 - mercaptopicolinic acid , a potent inhibitor of gluconeogenesis , was also examined on this model .
VEGF and COL - IV levels were found to be significantly higher for pattern A ( 110 mus pulse width ) compared to pattern B ( 5 mus pulse width ) at 14 days , implying that pattern A may be more effective at promoting angiogenesis .
METHODS : The study included 60 patients with a known prognosis of invasive breast cancer .
Simian virus 40 large T antigen ( SV40 Tag ) was introduced into a normal human first trimester invasive EVT cell line , HTR8 , established in our laboratory .
With this retrovirus , LMP1 was shown to stimulate the proliferation of primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts ( MEF cells ) .
VM is critical for a tumor blood supply and is asscociated with aggressive features and metastasis .
Biopsy specimens were examined by real - time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction ( RT - PCR ) and Western blotting ; serum was analyzed by enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) .
The vascular anomalies seem to precede the development of histologic lesions in some instances .
To investigate the dose - dependent effects of APC protein in suppressing intestinal tumorigenesis , we constructed mutant mice carrying hypomorphic Apc alleles Apc ( neoR ) and Apc ( neoF ) whose expression levels were reduced to 20 % and 10 % of the wild type , respectively .
Significant differences were found between the control and experimental fat pads with regard to weight and length .
Here , we demonstrate in mice pleiotropic involvement of PTHrP in key steps of breast cancer - it influences the initiation and progression of primary tumors and metastases .
In a three - dimensional model of breast carcinogenesis , disorganized , proliferative transformed breast epithelial cells express significantly higher expression of angiogenic genes compared with their polarized , growth - arrested nonmalignant counterparts .
Pbx1 is a downstream target of Evi - 1 in hematopoietic stem / progenitors and leukemic cells .
These chemicals differ from the direct - acting mutagens tested previously .
We previously described the isolation of non - tumorigenic revertants from mutagenized populations of v - fos - transformed Rat - 1 cells ( Zarbl et al . , 1987 ) .
This suggests that expression of DR antigens also can be modulated post - transcriptionally .
For investigation of cell suspensions , four pleural fluids were incubated with anticalretinin antiserum .
FM - MSC were obtained from Lewis rats and had surface antigen expression and multipotent potential partly similar to those of BM - MSC .
Interventional strategies showed that existing therapeutic modalities for asthma , such as inhaled corticosteroids , were sufficient to block the enhanced pulmonary recruitment of cancer cells from circulation .
The data indicate that endosialin is strongly expressed by pericytes during periods of active angiogenesis during embryonic and tumor development .
The more pronounced effects of Bmi - 1 over - expression in culture were largely attributable to the attenuated induction of p16 ( Ink4a ) and p19 ( Arf ) in culture , proteins that are generally not expressed by neural stem / progenitor cells in young mice in vivo .
The sensitivity and specificity of s - VEGF at the cut - off level of 100 pg / ml , as determined by the receiver - operating - characteristics curve , were 80 . 0 % and 72 . 5 % , respectively .
However , the increase in visual acuity is variable , probably due to the extent of RPE damage .
Correlation of lymphatic vessel density and vascular endothelial growth factor with nodal metastasis in papillary thyroid microcarcinoma .
Incubation with 1 micromol / L sanguinarine for 4 and 24h killed more efficiently MG - 63 cells than SaOS - 2 cells , while incubation with 5 micromol / L sanguinarine killed almost 100 % of both cell populations within 24h .
Conversely , knockdown of endogenous FOXO3a expression reduced PI3K / Akt activity .
Ciprofloxacin mediated cell growth inhibition , S / G2 - M cell cycle arrest , and apoptosis in a human transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder cell line .
CONCLUSIONS : These observations suggested that several subtypes of the AQP family play a role in human breast carcinogenesis .
Because the identity of pulmonary endothelial SOCs is unknown , but mammalian homologues of the Drosophila melanogaster transient receptor potential ( trp ) gene have been proposed to form Ca2 + entry channels in nonexcitable cells , we performed RT - PCR using Trp oligonucleotide primers in both rat and human pulmonary arterial endothelial cells .
BAG - 1L also potentiated transactivation of known vitamin - D - responsive gene promoters , osteocalcin and 24 - hydroxylase , and enhanced VDR - dependent transcription and protein expression of the keratinocyte differentiation marker , involucrin .
RESULTS : Survivin expression was noted in 30 ( 81 % ) of breast carcinomas , and in normal breast tissue , in nuclei , and cytoplasm .
Human cervical cancer cells ( CaSki and SiHa ) were injected into the flanks of nude mice .
We tested whether as well as inhibiting leukocyte elastase ( LE ) activity , Hyp might be effective in containing both polymorphonuclear neutrophil ( PMN ) leukocyte recruitment and unfavorable eventual tissue responses .
Our results showed that curcumin dose - dependently inhibited ( P < 0 . 05 ) the proliferation of MCF - 7 cells .
There is considerable debate concerning where in the cell Notch functions and what proteins serve as effectors of the Notch signal .
Perlecan was also found to stimulate endothelial cell proliferation in vitro over a period of 6 days in the presence of plasma proteins and fibroblastic growth factor 2 ( FGF - 2 ) , however in the absence of FGF - 2 endothelial cell growth could not be maintained during this period .
As a consequence , these tumors generate more lactate , which is effluxed from cells by monocarboxylate transporters ( MCTs ) .
Together these results indicate that expression of junB above a threshold level is essential for v - fos - induced transformation of Rat - 1 fibroblasts .
The latent membrane protein LMP1 of Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) is often present in EBV - associated malignancies including nasopharyngeal carcinoma and Hodgkin ' s lymphoma .
In DNA from the T - cells not expressing DR alpha mRNA , all of the potential HpaII sites within the BglII fragment appeared to be methylated .
No ocular or systemic bevacizumab - related side effects were observed .
This chapter provides a new intravital microscopic method for detecting and measuring NO - dependent angiogenesis in a mouse model .
Recently , it has become apparent that microRNAs ( miRNAs ) also contribute to EBV ' s oncogenic properties ; recombinant EBVs that lack the BHRF1 miRNA cluster display a reduced ability to transform B lymphocytes in vitro .
We studied the metabolic changes of endothelial cell activation by growth factors using human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) , [ 1 , 2 - ( 13 ) C ( 2 ) ] - glucose and mass isotopomer distribution analysis .
Four out of seven control grafts were patent with endothelial cell lining at six months , but three were occluded and one of the four grafts was still covered with a thrombus layer .
The stimulation of inositol phosphate generation in control and ras - gene - transformed NIH - 3T3 cells by prostaglandin F2 alpha ( PGF2 alpha ) was investigated .
In this study , the aim was to investigate the effect of phenolic acids found abundantly in vegetables , i . e . gallic acid ( GA ) , caffeic acid ( CA ) and protocatechuic acid ( PCA ) , on the inhibition of gastric adenocarcinoma ( AGS ) cell metastasis .
Normal cells are 10 - to 50 - fold more resistant to these effects .
No vessels were visualized in the controls .
Large lesions with relatively good visual acuity ( 20 / 50 or better ) may be at particular risk for marked vision loss following verteporfin administration .
Furthermore , this may explain why cancer in younger patients is more often ' aggressive ' .
The modulation of platelet and endothelial cell adhesion to vascular graft materials by perlecan .
The apoptotic cascade was studied by immunoblot analysis of caspases following Sim treatment .
The pharmacokinetics of STX243 were examined at two different doses using adult female rats .
Simian virus 40 ( SV40 ) is a powerful tool to study cellular transformation in vitro , as well as tumor development and progression in vivo .
To understand the mechanisms behind these processes , we have examined the effect of FVIIa on apoptosis .
Similarly to mouse p15 ( INK4B ) , p10 expression is also induced by oncogenic insults and transforming growth factor - beta treatment and acts as a cell cycle inhibitor .
However , although beta ( 2 ) M and MHC class I are expressed on normal hematopoietic cells , which is a potential safety concern , the monoclonal antibodies were selective to tumor cells and did not damage normal cells in vitro or in human - like mouse models .
The treatment possibilities for ischemia - related vascular disease are limited .
Other enzymes , in anaerobic and aerobic glycolysis , which were blocked include hexokinase , phosphofructokinase , succinic and alpha - ketoglutarate dehydrogenases , as well as States 3 and 4 of oxidative phosphorylation .
Conditioned media from insulin - treated RPE cells were assayed for VEGF protein and capillary endothelial cell proliferation .
There is a significant increase in the number of apoptotic hepatocytes when they are cultured in the conditioned media .
FM - MSC or BM - MSC obtained from Lewis rats were injected into a MHC - mismatched August - Copenhagen - Irish rat model of hind limb ischemia .
In addition , syndecans bind to obesity - related factors and regulate their signaling , in turn modulating food consumption and weight balance .
The most common genetic alterations found in a wide variety of cancers are p53 tumor suppressor gene mutations .
Nitric oxide ( NO ) plays an important role in maintaining vascular homeostasis .
Patients with hyperfibrinogenemia showed worse clinical outcome in T2 gastric cancer , however , there was no correlation of plasma fibrinogen level with prognosis in T3 / T4 gastric cancer .
BACKGROUND : Opticin is a recently discovered glycoprotein present predominantly in the vitreous humour .
Although regulation of Id - 1 protein by several mitogenic factors is well - established , little is known about the role of FGF - 2 in the regulation of Id - 1 .
SD rats underwent MI received intramyocardial injection of MSCs from young donor rats ( n = 8 ) , old donor rats ( n = 8 ) , respectively .
Matrix metalloproteinase - 2 staining was observed exclusively in fibroblasts , reaching maximum levels 8 - 12 weeks after surgery , decreasing by 1 . 5 years but remaining significantly increased .
In order to understand the underlying mechanism by which TSC phenolic fraction potentiates BPDE - induced tumorigenicity , we examined its effect on the activation of two transcription factors AP - 1 and NF - kappaB which are known to be influenced by established tumor promoter TPA .
UFT and its metabolites inhibit the angiogenesis induced by murine renal cell carcinoma , as determined by a dorsal air sac assay in mice .
In this study , we applied a proteomics strategy to identify novel proteins involved in ECM modeling that are regulated by LRP - 1 .
Development of a mouse model for lymph node metastasis with endometrial cancer .
Hence , GM - CSF and IL - 3 enhance the intracellular metabolism of ara - C and its incorporation into the DNA of leukemic cells leading to a higher antileukemic activity of ara - C on clonogenic leukemic cells ( CFU - L ) .
These findings elucidate the molecular mechanisms of PTTG overexpression in promoting tumor metastasis , whereby up - regulated PTTG modulates expression and secretion of metastasis - related factors to facilitate cell motility .
Latency was markedly increased and occurrence decreased in the p190 del C lines as compared with nonmutated p190 BCR / ABL transgenics .
Induction of TSP - 1 mRNA by TGF - beta was attenuated by c - Ski in vitro , and expression of TSP - 1 mRNA was decreased in tumors expressing c - Ski in vivo .
A thorough understanding of the unique metabolism of cancer cells will help to design of more effective drugs targeting metabolic pathways , which will greatly impact the capacity to effectively treat cancer patients .
The safety of verteporfin is directly dependent upon the appropriate integration of dosage , infusion and light activation required for a suitable pharmacotherapeutic outcome .
Following cotransfection of p53 - null EU - 4 cells with survivin promoter - luciferase constructs and either wt - p53 or different mut - p53 expression vectors , wt - p53 inhibited survivin promoter activity ; p53 - mediated inhibition could be abrogated by overexpression of murine double minute2 ( MDM2 ) protein .
DATS were injected once per four days intraperitoneally ( i . p . ) , with treatment starting 4 weeks prior to cells inoculation .
Thus , in 5T4 - transfected CL - S1 murine mammary cells , 5T4 expression is associated with dendritic morphology , accompanied by abrogation of actin / cadherin - containing contacts and increased motility .
CXCR4 transcripts and proteins were detectable in all five gastric cancer cell lines .
This suggests that FOXO3a is a potential suppressor of carcinogenic damage in LAC .
METHODS : The invasion , apoptosis and levels of uPA , MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 were determined by invasion assay , flow cytometry , Western blot and real - time fluorescence quantitative PCR respectively .
Cyclin D1 / bcl - 1 cooperates with myc genes in the generation of B - cell lymphoma in transgenic mice .
Intensive insulin therapy may cause a transient worsening of retinopathy in patients with diabetes through increased retinal VEGF gene expression .
Blocking the activation of p44 / 42 mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) by the specific mitogen - induced extracellular kinase ( MEK ) inhibitor , U0126 , impaired modestly the ability of FVIIa to promote cell survival .
Serum endostatin concentration was 1540 + / - 560 ng / ml at the second week of administration , the expression of endostatin diminished a month later .
Many of their functions suggest that they play important roles in cancers .
Lymph nodes metastasis of tumor could be a crucial early step in the metastatic process .
Reduction of TCF activity in these cells attenuates their ability to form brain and bone metastases in mice , independently of effects on tumor growth in the lungs .
Our previous studies mapped PEDF antiangiogenic and prosurvival activities to distinct epitopes .
The other induced genes revealed a whole set of biologically meaningful genes related to macrophage activation and TH1 immune response .
Stimulation of angiogenesis by adipose tissue was nearly abolished by bevacizumab , which specifically targets human VEGF .
No difference in relapse - free ( p = 0 . 26 ) or overall ( p = 0 . 63 ) survival was observed in patients stratified by angiogenin expression .
Strikingly , Tip30 deletion promotes proliferation of primary MECs and results in rapid immortalization of MECs in vitro relative to wild - type cells .
Down - regulation of collagen XII in transformed mesenchymal cells .
TSP interacts with a number of proteases and receptors and in this way inhibits stimulation of angiogenesis .
Inhibition of glucose metabolism enhanced killing of myeloid leukemia U937 , cervical carcinoma HeLa , and breast carcinoma MCF - 7 cells upon death receptor ligation .
Angiogenesis - dependent diseases result when new blood vessels either grow excessively or insufficiently .
No statistically significant relationships were found between age at onset of MDS or AML and patient gender , G - CSF dose , or duration of G - CSF therapy .
To our knowledge , this is the first study to evaluate the effects of 2ME2 in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
STUDY DESIGN : Thirty - three archival cytologic specimens from eight patients with histologically confirmed malignant mesothelioma and 13 from patients with metastatic serous effusions were destained and then immunostained with anticalretinin antiserum .
Estrogen is crucial in breast carcinogenesis and tumor progression .
These results suggest that C / EBPbeta may be a marker of neoplastic transformation and also play an active role in gastric tumourigenesis by regulating COX - 2 expression .
Immune consequences of burn injury .
Large amounts of cytosolic NADH were oxidized by the mitochondrial respiratory chain via the NADH shuttle , comprising anywhere from about 20 to 80 % of the total flow of reducing equivalents to oxygen in these tumors .
We hypothesized that signaling through multiple mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) kinase ( MKK ) pathways is essential for the growth and vascularization of soft - tissue sarcomas , which are malignant tumors derived from mesenchymal tissues .
Highly metastatic tumors with beta - catenin stabilization are very similar to a subset of human melanomas .
We found a decrease in corneal neovascularization in spironolactone - treated rats compared with the PBS - treated group , although the difference was not statistically significant .
Instead , regulation occurred at the mRNA level .
s - VEGF was also measured before , 4 and 8 weeks after nephrectomy in 11 patients .
The cohort examined was relatively small and with larger patient numbers , MDM2 overexpression may emerge as a more significant covariate .
The experimental studies in vitro and in vivo were performed to investigate the effects of carcinostatic agents in the adhesion of cancer cells to endothelial cells .
These inhibitors are directed towards the receptors of VEGF or intracellular substrates for the receptors .
Using a combination of two dimensional electrophoresis ( 2 - DE ) and MALDI - TOF mass spectrometry , a total of 125 proteins and their post - translational modification forms or isoforms were found to be differentially expressed in the cell lines .
We report a novel strategy to engineer and express stable and soluble human recombinant polyvalent / polyspecific fusion proteins .
The metronomic concept might not universally apply to every cytotoxic drug in colorectal cancer and metronomic combination regimens should be used with caution .
Patients having low sVAP - 1 levels had significantly poorer prognosis relative to patients having elevated sVAP - 1 in all or stages I - III gastric cancer patients , respectively .
The dynamic uptake of the glucose analogue [ 18F ] FDG was measured in diseased nodes and upper arm skeletal muscle in both metabolic states .
Loss - of - function effects were also observed in HIF - 1alpha - null embryonic stem cells .
Little is known about the specificity of angiogenic properties of oral cancer cells and the possible mechanisms .
Ultrastructural evidence reveals that at 8 weeks the grafts are composed primarily of collagen and fibroblasts with rough endoplasmic reticulum and vesicles .
PURPOSE : Head and neck squamous cell carcinomas have been reported to overexpress hypoxia - inducible factor ( HIF ) - 1alpha , a transcription factor that promotes expression of angiogenesis factors and resistance to programmed and therapy - induced cell death .
This identifies a novel function of Evi - 1 as a member of corepressor complexes and suggests that aberrant recruitment of corepressors is one of the mechanisms involved in Evi - 1 - induced leukemogenesis .
In this study we demonstrate that exposure of primary cultures of cardiac and vascular cells to hypoxia or AdCA5 , an adenovirus encoding a constitutively active form of HIF - 1alpha , modulates the expression of genes encoding the angiogenic factors angiopoietin - 1 ( ANGPT1 ) , ANGPT2 , placental growth factor , and platelet - derived growth factor - B .
Radiosensitization by 2 - DG in monolayer cells was primarily due to an increase in mitotic death ( 23 % ) linked to cytogenetic damage ( micronuclei ) , whereas a profound induction of apoptosis ( 40 % ) accounted for the sensitization in spheroids .
Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 staining was relatively sparse but was significantly increased until 8 weeks after surgery .
SMI activities were examined in vivo by supplementing the growth medium of zebrafish embryos expressing green fluorescent protein under the control of the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 2 promoter .
Neovascularization is associated with mechanical strain - dependent induction of angiogenic factors such as CCN1 , an immediate - early gene - encoded matricellular molecule critical for vascular development and repair .
The medical records were reviewed independent of the staining results to determine site of tumor origin .
14 - 3 - 3zeta Overexpression and abnormal beta - catenin expression are associated with poor differentiation and progression in stage I non - small cell lung cancer .
In the pathologic analysis of the abdominal wounds , there was no statistically significant difference between any of the groups , including the control group , regarding inflammation .
Human K562 cells , which express PHGPX , but not GPX , were also more sensitive to t - BuOOH in the Se - deficient ( K . Se ( - ) ) than Se - satisfied ( K . Se ( + ) ) condition .
Acquired molecular abnormalities ( mutations or chromosomal translocations ) of the RUNX1 transcription factor gene are frequent in acute myeloblastic leukemias ( AMLs ) and in therapy - related myelodysplastic syndromes , but rarely in acute lymphoblastic leukemias ( ALLs ) and chronic myelogenous leukemias ( CMLs ) .
Insulin - like growth factor - I receptor - mediated vasculogenesis / angiogenesis in human lung development .
Consequently , hPNAS - 4 has potential as a new gene therapy for human ovarian cancer .
Constitutively active RhoA ( FRTL - 5 - RhoA QL cells ) exhibited a fibroblast - like phenotype with organized actin fibers , whereas cells expressing the RhoA negative dominant phenotype ( FRTL - 5 - RhoA N19 cells ) present a rounded morphology and lose normal cytoskeletal architecture .
Many of these metastases presumably arise from primary lung carcinomas , but the morphologic features and immunohistochemical profile of lung cancer is often too nonspecific to permit unequivocal confirmation .
METHODS : We assessed antiapoptotic and proapoptotic markers in vascular and perivascular cells in lung biopsy samples from 18 patients with CHD , 7 with reversible and 11 with irreversible PHT , and 6 control patients .
AIMS : In this study we investigated the effect of cisplatin on endothelial cell migration , an essential process for vascular remodeling and regeneration in several physiological and pathological situations .
METHODS : Bovine aortic endothelial cells ( ECs ) were cultured .
Group 1 animals had the left buccal pouches painted three times weekly with 7 , 12 - dimethylbenz ( a ) anthracene ( DMBA ) for 14 weeks .
The temporal expression ( percentage positivity per 1000 analysed cells ) VEGF proteins over the course of CML were studied using the immunohistochemical technique utilizing relevant monoclonal antibodies .
Placental angiogenesis , which is physiologically normal , may serve as a general model of this process in other circumstances , such as tumor .
Determining sVAP - 1 levels may be valuable for predicting prognosis and lymph node metastasis .
Prognostic value of angiogenesis in operable non - small cell lung cancer .
IUGR fetuses are both hypoxic and hypoglycaemic , and have reduced insulin and insulin - like growth factor - 1 ( IGF - 1 ) , and elevated concentrations of lactate .
The expression of VEGF and p53 protein in these SCC was examined immunohistochemically .
Erbb2 ablation reduced the UV - induced activation of PI3K while inhibition of PI3K / Akt increased UV - induced S - phase arrest .
The role of Hes genes in intestinal development , homeostasis and tumor formation .
In vivo animal models of tissue injury and in vitro data also implicate syndecans in processes necessary for wound healing , including fibroblast and endothelial proliferation , cell motility , angiogenesis , and extracellular matrix organization .
These results suggest a role for HS chains of perlecan in improving graft patency by selectively promoting endothelial cell proliferation while modulating platelet adhesion .
A novel putative tyrosine kinase receptor with oncogenic potential .
Cell - matrix adhesion assay was used to study the adhesive ability of CNE1 - GL cells .
Normal cells mostly rely on mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation to produce energy .
Raising the albino mice in the dark prevented both events .
In MatrigelTM invasion assays , all subclones , which secreted enzymatically active ATX , demonstrated greater spontaneous and ATX - stimulated invasion than appropriate controls .
Loss of heterozygosity at the E - Cadherin ( uvo ) locus has been reported , but mutations in the E - cadherin gene seem to be rare .
However , recent identification of a high - Km glucose phosphorylating activity in a range of cancer cells prompted us to characterize glucose phosphorylating enzymes of cancer cells at the molecular level .
Conversion of these sites to alanine residues greatly reduced transforming activity , and although the mutant 55 - kDa protein was found to interact with p53 at normal levels , it was somewhat defective for suppression of p53 transactivation activity .
Additional cofactors and mutational events may be important in the pathogenesis of invasive cervical cancers and may include chromosomal rearrangements , loss of constitutional heterozygosity , and proto - oncogene activation .
Infection with retroviruses containing transforming genes of the src and ras oncogene families led to rapid loss of epidermal growth factor dependence , in some cases , accompanied by alterations in cellular morphology .
This is the first report of increased p53 levels caused by HCMV in infected fibroblasts .
The development of this technology has benefited from its application to both peripheral and coronary artery disease and results from both are reviewed here .
Homeostasis of the extracellular matrix is a delicate balance between degradation and remodeling , the balance being maintained by the interaction of activated matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) and specific tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases ( TIMPs ) .
This work provides a demonstration that a combination of bioinformatics and comparative proteomics can help in finding out potential biomarkers associated with HCC metastasis on the level of pathways .
Four patients received bevacizumab at a dose of 10 mg / m2 ; irinotecan was given at a dose of 125 mg / m2 every week for 3 weeks .
Furthermore , reduction of Pbx1 levels through RNAi - mediated knockdown significantly inhibited Evi - 1 - induced transformation .
Due to the importance of this pathway , it is clear that p53 disruptions may relate directly to a patient ' s prognosis .
Here , we demonstrate that HIF - 2alpha protein is selectively present in human fetal week 8 . 5 SNS paraganglia .
These data show that disrupting cytostructure activates the angiogenic switch even in the absence of proliferation and / or hypoxia and restoring organization of malignant clusters reduces VEGF expression and EC activation to levels found in quiescent nonmalignant epithelium .
In addition , when 200 micrograms U - 995 was injected i . p . into mice it suppressed sarcoma - 180 cell growth and B16 - F10 mouse melanoma cell metastasis in vivo .
We found that FGF - BP is dramatically upregulated during the initiation of colorectal and pancreatic adenocarcinoma .
The neural stem cell fate determinant TLX promotes tumorigenesis and genesis of cells resembling glioma stem cells .
Commonality exists in the processes involved in vasculature development between tissues whether healthy or diseased .
In in vitro study , honokiol inhibited VEGF - D - induced survival , proliferation and tube - formation of both human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) and lymphatic vascular endothelial cells ( HLECs ) .
Some human cancer cells have been found to overexpress eph mRNAs without gene amplification .
The control WB cells in continuous culture slowly developed TGF - beta resistance .
There were no differences in NME mRNA levels between these two cell lines , suggesting that expression of these proteins is regulated at a post - transcriptional level .
Endothelial cell migration is an essential step in vasculogenesis and angiogenesis , in which receptor tyrosine kinases play a pivotal role .
Solid tumors are frequently necrotic and hypoxic due to poor vascularization .
High expression of c - Ski has been found in some cancers , including gastric cancer .
To study the combined effects of v - erbA and v - myb , the two oncogenes were engineered into a retrovirus bicistronic vector with an internal ribosomal entry site ( IRES ) or into a vector with a splice acceptor ( SPL ) .
In addition , selected novel classes of antivascular therapies , including those targeting tumor endothelial cells and other components of the tumor vasculature , are summarized .
Treatment with anti - Fas for 48 h induced apoptosis with cells exhibiting typical apoptotic features including loss of cell contact , condensation of chromatin , and increased staining of the nuclear membrane .
Alterations in carbohydrate metabolism in canine lymphoma .
The biologic relevance of increased NOS in long - term PD was demonstrated by enhanced nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity and a significant increase in vascular density and endothelial area in the peritoneum .
Clinical significance of chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter - transcription factor II expression in human colorectal cancer .
To grow , invade and metastasize , a treacherous society between cancer and host cells must be formed , and this association provides novel and effective clinical targets for cancer control and prevention .
By 21 days post - injury , all activity had returned to near baseline level .
Angiostatin inhibits both ATP synthesis and ATP hydrolysis ( Moser et al . , 2001 ) and interferes with intracellular pH regulation ( Wahl and Grant , 2002 ; Wahl et al . , 2002 ) .
We propose that cytolytic effector and related proteins produced by putative NK and some CD8 + CD56 + postthymic T - cell lymphomas , probably in conjunction with other mechanisms , may effect massive tumor cell apoptosis .
We show that LRP - 1 deficiency in murine embryonic fibroblasts ( MEFs ) is associated with increased levels of type III collagen and pigment epithelium - derived factor , which accumulate in the substratum surrounding cells .
The size of these A431 tumors did not differ significantly from those of control A431 tumors raised without F - 2 cells .
Prior studies showed enhancement of such carcinogenesis by repeated 20 rad head and neck X - radiation exposures , and it was proposed that one possible mechanism was radiogenic alteration of the functional microvasculature in a manner which favored subsequent tumor development .
There was a significant correlation between loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 expression and upregulation of c - myc .
Cediranib ( 6 mg / kg / day ) also blocked angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis induced by adenoviruses expressing VEGF - A or VEGF - C and compromised the blood and lymphatic vasculatures of VEGF - C - expressing tumors .
Angiogenesis in platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule - 1 - null mice .
RESULTS : Both wild - type and mutant PTEN can upregulate the expression of PTEN gene dramatically ; however , it is wild - type PTEN not phosphatase - inactive PTEN that can induce apoptosis and decrease cell migration , invasion and proliferation in ovarian cancer cells .
Many of these alterations parallel those observed in human patients suffering from cancer cachexia making canine lymphoma a potential model for further study of the pathogenesis and therapy of cancer cachexia .
Ploidy analysis was carried out on 39 EOGCs and immunohistochemistry of CDC4 / FBXW7 and its substrates c - myc , c - jun , Notch and cyclin E was performed on 204 gastric carcinomas using tissue microarrays ( TMAs ) .
Dioleoyl phosphatidylethanolamine - based lipoplexes were found to give low expression , apparently because of an immediate loss of integrity in serum , without lipid - DNA dissociation .
Exposure of SKOV - 3 cells to paclitaxel or carboplatin along with 317615 2HCl resulted in cell survivals that reflected additivity of 317615 x 2HCl with paclitaxel and greater - than - additive cytotoxicity with carboplatin .
The prevailing model for Notch signaling suggests that ligand , presented on a neighboring cell , triggers proteolytic processing of Notch .
Extensive research , however , has revealed that TNF - alpha is one of the major players in tumor initiation , proliferation , invasion , angiogenesis and metastasis .
The HDAC inhibition of HTPB was confirmed using HDAC activity assay .
Associations of KISS1 methylation and its expression with histopathological variables and poor survival suggest the utility of incorporating KISS1 measurement using paraffin - embedded material for tumor stratification and clinical outcome prognosis of patients with uroepithelial neoplasias .
Efficient inhibition of ovarian cancer growth and prolonged survival by transfection with a novel pro - apoptotic gene , hPNAS - 4 , in a mouse model .
The majority had nuclear ( 70 . 1 % ) or nuclear and cytoplasmic staining ( 17 . 3 % ) .
In the meantime , it could also greatly reduce the G1 and S , with obviously dose - response relationship .
BACKGROUND & # 38 ; OBJECTIVE : Previous study shows that both vascular endothelial growth - C ( VEGF - C ) and tumor - associated macrophages ( TAMs ) are related to lymphatic metastasis .
Here , we show that gene transfer - induced p75 ( NTR ) expression impairs the survival , proliferation , migration , and adhesion capacities of cultured ECs and endothelial progenitor cells ( EPCs ) and inhibits angiogenesis in vitro .
METHODS : Of the 456 eligible and analyzable patients ( parent cohort ) , adequate archival diagnostic tissue specimens from 108 patients were available for MDM2 analysis ( MDM2 cohort ) .
The E7 oncoprotein of bovine papillomavirus type 1 ( BPV - 1 ) is required for the full transformation activity of the virus .
The eph gene encodes a putative receptor tyrosine kinase for an as yet unknown ligand .
We also show that Akt pathway mediates IGF1 - R - induced Bcl - x ( L ) expression at transcriptional level .
VEGF activates phospholipases ( PLCs ) - specifically PLCgamma1 - that are important for tubulogenesis , differentiation and DNA synthesis .
[ Inhibitory effect of adenovirus - mediated endostatin gene transfer on transplanted lung carcinoma in mice ]
This review article focuses on recent developments in the use of angiogenesis inhibitors for the treatment of breast , lung , and colorectal cancers .
It has a mitogenic activity for MEF cells , as demonstrated by an immediate induction of cell doubling time .
Patients whose tumors were CD40 - negative showed a significantly better N stage , overall stage at presentation and survival than those patients with CD40 - positive patients .
The predicted UFO protein exhibits characteristic features of a transmembrane receptor with associated tyrosine kinase activity .
These enzymes and their physiologic inhibitors , the tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases ( TIMPs ) , act in a coordinated manner to form an integrated system .
After 2 h incubation at 37 degrees C the drop in the ATP level was much lower .
Electrical stimulation ( ES ) has been recommended as a adjunctive therapy , however optimal treatment paradigms have not been established .
The role of each prognostic variable and their independent effect were studied using the Cox model .
Protein up - regulation of HER2 in the epithelium with metaplasia or carcinoma in situ was not accompanied by HER2 gene amplification .
We hypothesized that Erbb2 activation contributes to UV - induced skin tumorigenesis by suppressing cell cycle arrest .
14 diabetics with chronic nonhealing wounds which did not respond to treatment for at least 3 months were treated by HBO .
These TGF - beta - resistant cells also exhibited progressively increasing levels of expression of the c - fos and and myc mRNA , and increased resistance to the cytotoxicity of Adriamycin and melphalan .
Neurovascular effects of CD47 signaling : promotion of cell death , inflammation , and suppression of angiogenesis in brain endothelial cells in vitro .
RESULTS : The mean sVAP - 1 level for cancer patients was significantly higher relative to controls , and decreased with disease progression .
We have demonstrated recently that lactoferrin enhances the expression of a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor family , Fas , in the colon mucosa during both early and late stages of carcinogenesis .
CONCLUSIONS : These results suggest that CD40 expression on lung cancer may play a role in metastatic spread , and also may serve as a prognostic marker and an indicator of advanced disease .
The polyester prostheses utilized were polyester flat ( PF ) and polyester soft three - dimensional ( PS ) ; the PP mesh utilized was Marlex .
Inhibition of glucose metabolism sensitizes tumor cells to death receptor - triggered apoptosis through enhancement of death - inducing signaling complex formation and apical procaspase - 8 processing .
Targeting wide - range oncogenic transformation via PU24FCl , a specific inhibitor of tumor Hsp90 .
In summary , LPA is likely a key component for promoting ovarian metastasis in vivo .
However , very little is known about the function of RASSF1C both in normal and transformed cells .
We have reported important benefits and survival with an immunotherapy schedule in patients with endocrine - dependent breast cancer and distant metastases .
Multivariate analysis demonstrated that alpha - SMA and lymph node metastasis were identified as independent predictive factors of metastasis .
In each experimental situation , the casts provided a valuable three dimensional representation of the newly formed blood vessels and permitted subclassification of the vessels within normal and proliferating vascular networks .
Expression and purification of the catalytic domain of human vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 for inhibitor screening .
FA induced GR - mediated transcription in Ca3 / 7 cells transfected with a luciferase reporter gene under the control of glucocorticoid response element ( GRE ) , but DMI alone did not affect GR - mediated transcription .
A partial response ( PR ) was obtained after the first course with regression of multiple pulmonary metastases .
Unusual in healthy individuals , their presence in elevated numbers often indicates substantial vascular endothelial perturbation .
CONCLUSION : Immunostaining with D2 - 40 significantly increased the frequency of detection of lymphatic invasion compared to conventional H . E . - staining in early breast cancer .
Statistically significant differences were observed between groups 1 and 4 and between groups 1 and 3 regarding the hydroxyproline content of the abdominal wounds .
ACA treatment resulted in changes in morphology and a dose - dependent suppression of cell viability .
Postoperative progression of pulmonary metastasis in osteosarcoma .
Furthermore , in comparison with native OPN , thrombin - cleaved OPN stimulated a greater rate of EC migration in vitro , which was additive to the increased migration associated with induction of alpha v beta 3 .
Wnt signaling , stem cells , and the cellular origin of breast cancer .
Current therapy for glioma is suboptimal .
These results show a remarkable selectivity of expression and function for laminin - 332 G45 in human SCC tumorigenesis and implicate it as a specific target for anticancer therapy .
Analysis of molecular aberrations of Wnt pathway gladiators in colorectal cancer in the Kashmiri population .
Osteonectin is one of the major non - collagenous proteins of bone .
Systemic administration of VEGF or LPS in adult mice resulted in cyclosporine A - sensitive reactivation of the DSCR1s promoter and endogenous gene expression in a subset of organs , including the heart and brain .
As chicken embryo fibroblasts are devoid of EGF receptors , their activity is not potentiated by EGF .
The induction of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and interleukin - 8 ( IL - 8 ) is an essential feature of tumor angiogenesis , and the hypoxia - inducible factor - 1 ( HIF - 1 ) transcription factor is known to be a key regulator of this process .
Assays used to screen for BRAF mutations in the clinic should be robust enough to detect the p . Val600Lys mutation , as this may have therapeutic implications .
Knocking down p24delta1 in insulinoma cell lines , which also resulted in the concomitant knock - down of other family members , impaired glucose - stimulated insulin secretion , decreased total cellular insulin content and reduced proinsulin biosynthesis .
Cytotoxic concentrations of cisplatin , etoposide , doxorubicin or peplomycin ( tentatively termed as Group I compounds ) , but not methotrexate and 5 - FU ( tentatively termed as Group II compounds ) , enhanced the cytotoxic activity of NaF .
In a xenograft model metronomic CPT - 11 , but not 5 - FU and L - OHP , significantly inhibits HT - 29 tumor growth and microvessel density in the absence of toxicity .
In vitro studies have shown that the mast cell seems to behave as a helper cell for capillary endothelial cells , in some way speeding up their rate of directional migration .
The molecular basis of this behaviour could be related to different locations for the lactate dehydrogenase isoenzymes , as suggested by their immunohistochemical labelling .
These new insights into the involvement of syndecans in disease and tissue repair coupled with the emergence of syndecan - specific molecular tools may lead to novel therapies for a variety of human diseases .
In vivo p53 response and immune reaction underlie highly effective low - dose radiotherapy in follicular lymphoma .
These results indicate that the INK4B locus , similarly to INK4A - ARF , harbors two different splicing variants that can be involved in the regulation of both the p53 and retinoblastoma pathways , the two major molecular pathways in tumor suppression .
The mechanism proposed is a stimulation of angiogenesis for distant dormant micrometastases .
The Erbb2 receptor is activated by UV irradiation , the primary cause of non - melanoma skin cancer .
Thus stage specific duality of function is the emerging paradigm for the role of TGFbeta1 in cancer .
RESULTS : Vandetanib treatment had no effect on tumor cell clonogenic cell survival in vitro but doses > or = 10 nM significantly reduced endothelial cell migration .
As for adverse events , only pigmentation of the skin and Grade 2 oral aphta were observed .
Leukemic K562 , U937 and HL60 cells expressed Glut - 1 transporter protein .
Although vascular casts must be interpreted with caution in light of the possibility of incomplete filling and other artifacts , they are a valuable tool in the study of ocular vasoproliferation .
High - grade CC - RCC showed a higher ECP % ( P = 0 . 049 ) , a higher TCP % ( P = 0 . 009 ) , a higher VEGF protein expression ( P less than 0 . 001 ) , a lower MVD ( P less than 0 . 001 ) and a lower HIF - 1alpha protein expression ( P = 0 . 002 ) than low - grade CC - RCC .
Its suppression has also been shown to be associated with malignant transformation of epithelial cells .
No CDC4 / FBXW7 mutations were found and loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 did not correlate with ploidy status .
METHODS : Using human colon adenocarcinoma tissues ( hereinafter referred to as colon cancer ) and their corresponding non - diseased colon from 114 patients ' biopsies , the expression of SPARC and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) were investigated by immunohistochemistry staining to assessment the relationship between SPARC and VEGF , as well as their prognostic significance in patients .
Induction of these genes also occurred in diverticulitis and digestive neoplasms such as gastric and esophageal carcinomas .
Melissoidesin G ( MOG ) is a new diterpenoid purified from Isodon melissoides , a plant used in Chinese traditional medicine as antitumor and anti - inflammatory agents .
In contrast , caspase - 3 , Fas ligand , Fas / CD95 , and PAI showed an inverse correlation to lymph node involvement .
18F - FDG and 123I - IMT uptake was quantified as ratios between the uptake by the tumour and contralateral regions of reference .
In this study , we sought to investigate in more detail the role of caspase - 3 in apoptotic processes in cultured cells and in cell - free extracts of breast cancer cells .
Intraperitoneal injections of 2G7 starting 1 d after intraperitoneal inoculation of tumor cells suppressed intraabdominal tumor and lung metastases , whereas the nonneutralizing anti - TGF - beta 12H5 IgG2a had no effect .
CONCLUSION : Down - regulated expression of PTEN gene is found in different stages of gastric carcinoma , and is closely correlated with LOH of its epigenetic microsatellites , which probably is its underlying molecular mechanisms .
Exposure to combinations of paclitaxel or carboplatin and 317615 x 2HCl with MX - 1 cells in culture resulted in cell survival that reflected primarily additivity of the two agents .
The optimal duration of chemotherapy in patients with early and metastatic colorectal cancer is unclear .
Malignant cells often display defects in autophagy , an evolutionarily conserved pathway for degrading long - lived proteins and cytoplasmic organelles .
Here we review the recent evidence of a simple genetic mechanism by which tumor suppressor p53 regulates mitochondrial respiration with secondary changes in glycolysis that are reminiscent of the Warburg effect .
Analysis of associations among studied proteins revealed positive correlation between Bcl - xL and Bax in primary tumors ( P < 0 . 03 , r = 0 . 307 ) .
The migration activity of mast cell conditioned medium was resistant to heat ( 100 degrees C ) and incubation with proteolytic enzymes .
Research and discovery of the first human cancer virus , HTLV - 1 .
However , it is completely absent from cells transformed by the oncogene v - myc or v - src and from cells derived from a methylcholanthrene - induced fibrosarcoma .
BI - 1 ( Bax inhibitor - 1 ) , an apoptosis - inhibiting gene belonging to the Bcl - 2 protein family , plays an important role in mitochondrial apoptosis pathway to suppress Bax - induced apoptosis .
Myb ' s ability to regulate c - myc ' s expression was also demonstrated in these cells , showing a mechanism through which the proto - oncogene c - myb can exert its oncogenic potential in myeloid lineage hematopoietic cells .
DMBA maxima were significantly higher than those of DMBA + radiation .
The results suggest that in this strain , the malate - citrate shuttle is not an effective pathway for transferring glycolytic reducing equivalents from cytosol to mitochondria .
Smooth muscle - rich tissues respond to mechanical overload by an adaptive hypertrophic growth combined with activation of angiogenesis , which potentiates their mechanical overload - bearing capabilities .
Moreover , HMGA2 knockdown by short hairpin HMGA2 in HepG2 cells leads to progressive telomere shortening and a concurrent decrease of steady - state hTERT mRNA levels , attenuating their ability to form colonies in soft agar .
Excluding N - stage , vascular grade was the only independent prognostic factor ( P = 0 . 007 ) .
Moreover , about 10 % of v - fos transformed cells transfected with vectors that express antisense junB mRNA acquired a non - transformed phenotype .
METHODS : XTT cell proliferation assay was used for showing cytotoxicity .
sVAP - 1 levels were assayed by enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay .
Furthermore , the Runx2 / MYC combination overcomes the requirement for genetic inactivation of the p53 pathway in vivo .
The glucose turnover rate was significantly greater in TB compared with NTB animals , as was the rate of glucose recycling and the rate of gluconeogenesis ( alanine leads to glucose ) , both energy demanding processes .
Grossly , these tumors were small and had few feeding vessels .
Apoptosis was further measured by DNA fragmentation and microscope examination .
Spontaneous metastasis indicates a possible reverse correlation .
In experimental breast cancer , estradiol increased IL - 8 whereas the anti - estrogen tamoxifen inhibited the secretion of IL - 8 both in vitro and extracellularly in vivo in tumors of nude mice .
Based on our results , COUP - TFII may represent a biomarker for good prognosis in colorectal cancer .
In addition , ischemia induces expression of HIF1alpha in hypoxic tissue .
The low apoptosis phenotype is dominant in Runx2 / MYC tumors , indicating that Runx2 confers a potent survival advantage to MYC - expressing tumor cells .
Expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA increased in 33 of 41 colon tumors , and expression of nm23 - H2 mRNA was elevated in 28 of 41 colon tumors relative to that in matched normal mucosa .
Additional grafted rats treated with spironolactone ( n = 6 ) or PBS ( n = 8 ) were sacrificed on day 12 for quantitative RT - PCR analysis for mechanistic studies .
In the current study , Hedgehog signaling in tumor related vasculature and microenvironment was examined using human umbilical vein endothelial cells and B16F0 ( murine melanoma ) tumors models .
Antiangiogenesis therapy might have a role in reducing regional metastasis .
The rate of oxygen utilization was not altered by the addition of 0 . 5 mM glutamine ; 5 mM glucose induced an inhibition of respiration .
The frequency of elevated bFGF values among all groups was statistically significant ( p = 0 . 002 ) , and the levels of bFGF in RDEB patients were significantly elevated compared with those of other groups ( p less than 0 . 05 ) .
Epidermal growth factor ( EGF ) binds with high affinity and specificity to a single site on the external domain of its transmembrane receptor to activate the tyrosine protein kinase activity of its cytoplasmic portion .
CD40 engagement by CD154 did not affect apoptosis or survival .
The construction of animals doubly mutant for brca2 and the apoptotic gene tp53 ( p53 ) rescued brca2 - dependent sex reversal .
Such repression activity was totally absent with mutant pm490 / 1 / 5A .
p53 - deficient cancers are often unstable , aggressive , and resistant to therapy .
Betulin , unlike its chemical derivative betulinic acid , did not directly trigger mitochondrial cytochrome c release in isolated mitochondria .
Experiments with nu / nu mice , nonobese diabetic - SCID mice , or activated spc enriched in specific cell subpopulations demonstrated that CD4 ( + ) , CD8 ( + ) , and NK cells are all needed to mediate the full anti - angiogenetic effect of IL - 12 .
Transient circulating levels of angioactive molecules and serial high - resolution imaging studies of focal angiogenesis might help .
The intensity of MDM2 staining was not significant .
Therefore , we next examined the effect of DMI on Ca3 / 7 cells , resistant to growth inhibition by the synthetic glucocorticoid fluocinolone acetonide ( FA ) .
Angiogenesis - a novel therapeutic approach for ischemic heart disease .
The basal phosphorylation of protein kinase C substrate of relative molecular mass ( Mr ) 80 , 000 ( 80K ) is significantly increased in all the ras - transformed cell lines .
The synthesis and / or the excretion of this factor in a medium is controlled by the A gene .
The integrin alpha5beta1 - Fibronectin interaction was demonstrated on the chip .
Here we investigated the effects of small molecule inhibitors ( SMIs ) designed to disrupt integrin alpha2 I or beta1 I - like domain function on angiogenesis .
Angiogenesis in the caprine caruncles in non - pregnant and pregnant normal and swainsonine - treated does .
Microvessel density and ECP % were inversely correlated ( Rho = - 0 . 26 , P = 0 . 001 ) .
The beneficial effect of IL - 1Ra on most islet endothelial / OS / immune cells / fibrosis parameters analyzed highlights a major endothelial - related role for IL - 1 in GK islet alterations .
In this study , we investigated whether the nuclear transcription factor NF - kappaB , implicated in PC metastasis , is involved in transcriptional regulation and activation of BMP - 2 or BMP - 4 / Smad signaling in PC cells .
Activated platelets enhance ovarian cancer cell invasion in a cellular model of metastasis .
bFGF was loaded into the heparin functionalized ( PLGA - heparin ) microspheres by a simple dipping method .
However , the expression level of E - cadherin had an inverse relationship with both differentiation level of the tumor and lymphatic vessel invasion ( p = 0 . 0430 and 0 . 0320 , respectively ) .
A growing body of evidence indicates that deregulation of stem cell fate determinants is a hallmark of many types of malignancies .
One of the most fundamental is the ability to act as essential growth checkpoint that protects cells against cellular transformation .
Our aim was to investigate the role of tumor lymphangiogenesis during metastasis .
In this study , we used two inflammatory agents , IL - 1beta and phorbol myristic acetate , to activate PKC isozymes and specific inhibitors of PKCalpha ( Go6976 ) and PKCbeta ( hispidin ) to distinguish how each of these isoform ( s ) controls angiogenesis , wound healing , and permeability .
Among these are vascular endothelial growth factor - A ( VEGF - A ) , the key angiogenic stimulant , and VEGF - C , a primary mediator of lymphangiogenesis .
A two sided correlation between the expression of TKTL1 and LDH5 could be shown ( p = 0 . 002 ) within the overall cohort as well as for each grading and pN group .
To examine the mechanism by which ethanol influences angiogenesis in wounds , we employed two different in vitro angiogenesis assays to determine whether acute ethanol exposure ( 100 mg / dl ) would have long - lasting effects on VEGF - induced capillary network formation .
Impaired CK1 delta activity attenuates SV40 - induced cellular transformation in vitro and mouse mammary carcinogenesis in vivo .
Interleukin - 6 ( IL - 6 ) is proinflammatory cytokine that produces multifunctional effects .
The average IMVD in positive and negative cervical lymphatic metastasis was ( 26 . 33 + / - 9 . 70 ) and ( 17 . 68 + / - 6 . 06 ) respectively , and the IMVD with positive lymphatic metastasis tumors was statistical significantly higher than those with negative cervical lymphatic metastasis tumors ( P less than 0 . 01 ) .
In recent years the family of ADAM proteases has been ascribed important roles in these processes .
To maintain an elevated glycolytic rate , cancerous or proliferating cells alter the expression pattern of rate limiting glycolytic enzymes .
The present study was therefore designed to evaluate the expression of thrombospondin 1 and 2 ( TSP - 1 , TSP - 2 ) , TSP receptors CD36 and CD47 , and matrix - metalloproteases 2 and 9 ( MMP - , MMP - 9 ) in a rat prostate cancer model .
MET expression is rarely detected in primary human melanoma but is frequently observed in metastatic disease .
Together , these results suggest that Tip30 is an intrinsic and negative regulator of MEC proliferation partly through the inhibition of Wisp2 and Igf - 1 expression , and its absence in the mammary gland may predispose MECs to neoplastic transformation .
Energy metabolism of freshly harvested Ehrlich ascites tumour cells in the presence of 5 mM glucose and / or 0 . 5 mM glutamine was studied .
Thalidomide in concentrations from 0 . 1 microM to 10 microM did not change cell proliferation of 72 - h cell cultures .
Previous work has shown that a rabbit anti - VCSA serum lyses specifically , in the presence of complement , 51Cr - labelled RSV - transformed cells from different animal species .
In contrast , at least some of these sites were not methylated in DNA from the B - cells expressing high levels of DR alpha mRNA .
After a 48 - hour incubation period , seven groups of animals were treated for 21 days with fluconazole , with group I acting as a control , and groups II to VII receiving adjunct therapy with the corticosteroid prednisolone ( 5 or 10 times daily ; 3 , 9 , or 15 days after infection ) .
These results suggest that CYR61 and CTGF may play a role in the progression of gliomas ; their levels at diagnosis may have prognostic significance ; and these proteins might serve as valuable targets for therapeutic intervention .
No tumours were induced within the latent period for tumour production by control cells transfected with NIH3T3 cell DNA ( 40 - 60 days ) .
Randomized , open label , prospective study on the effect of zoledronic acid on the prevention of bone metastases in patients with recurrent solid tumors that did not present with bone metastases at baseline .
Vimentin expression , growth fractions ( GF ) , and estrogen receptor ( ER ) levels were determined for 90 untreated primary breast carcinomas .
In addition , higher apoptotic counts were associated with HRK positivity .
To understand the molecular mechanisms underlying compound - induced hemangiosarcomas in mice , and therefore , their human relevance , a systems biology approach was undertaken using transcriptomics and Causal Network Modeling from mice treated with 2 - butoxyethanol ( 2 - BE ) .
HGF were stimulated with lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) , vesicle ( Ve ) and outer membrane protein ( OMP ) from Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans and Porphyromonas gingivalis .
Brain pericytes in culture had higher levels of endosialin / TEM 1 than TEMs - 2 , - 3 , - 4 , - 5 , - 7 , and - 8 .
It is well established that tobacco smoke is a tumor initiator , but we asked whether it also acts as a tumor promoter once malignant initiation , such as caused by K - ras activation , has taken place .
Although evidence suggesting a role for FAK in morphogenesis is accumulating , current uncertainties regarding its cytoplasmic location and its molecular interactions in vivo make it difficult to reach definitive conclusions regarding the significance of its contributions to developmental processes .
Melanoma cells and human fibroblasts adhered to immobilized DC - 9 in a Mn ( 2 + ) - dependent fashion suggesting an integrin - mediated process .
Normal and transforming functions of RUNX1 : a perspective .
These accelerated relapses occur within 10 months of surgery for untreated patients .
Phosphatase and tension homolog deleted on chromosome 10 ( PTEN ) , a tumor suppressor , is frequently deficient in various pathologies due to mutation or epigenetic alterations .
Thus TF , in addition to factors downstream of the coagulation cascade and the protease - activated receptor 2 activation system , would be a multifactorial regulator of atherogenesis .
In contrast , tunicamycin had little effect on the viability and MTT responses of the cells used .
Given the dominant role of p21 in p53 cell cycle control , we crossed Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) mice onto a p21 - null background to determine whether p21 was required for maintaining chromosomal stability and delaying tumor onset .
In unchallenged endothelial cells , fibrillar collagen induced robust capillary morphogenesis .
Clinical significance of plasma endostatin in acute myeloid leukemia / myelodysplastic syndrome .
BACKGROUND : The MDM2 oncoprotein promotes p53 degradation via ubiquitin , establishing negative feedback control of p53 and consequently affecting cell cycle arrest and apoptosis .
Using GC cell lines we show that C / EBPbeta can regulate the expression of endogenous COX - 2 and transactivate the promoter of the COX - 2 gene , depending on its methylation status .
Growth state - dependent regulation of protein kinase C in normal and transformed murine cells .
Here , we show that deleting the Tip30 gene leads to ductal hyperplasia in mouse mammary glands early in life and extensive mammary hyperplasia with age .
Targeting tumour pericytes is a promising anti - angiogenic therapy but requires identifying the mechanisms of their recruitment in tumour and addressing whether these mechanisms can be selectively harnessed .
Here clinical outcome is updated and its correlation with new immunological data is shown .
Their resistance to the anti - invasive action of TGFbeta was explained by the failure of TGFbeta to upregulate TIMPs and PAI - I , in contrast to the TGFbeta - induced upregulation noted in parental HTR8 cells .
This first analysis is based on 73 patients ( 50 women , 23 men , median age 74 . 3 years ) , with a median follow - up of 13 . 3 months and a minimum follow - up of 11 months .
Vascularization of subcutaneous Matrigel implants as well as tumor angiogenesis were both inhibited in PECAM - 1 - null mice .
There are examples of the aberrant expression of a homeobox gene causing leukemias in humans .
PURPOSE : The goal of this research was to evaluate a potential therapeutic agent for breast cancer based on galectin - 3 that has been implicated in tumorigenicity and metastasis of breast cancer .
An increase in oligomycin - independent respiration was observed in HepG2 cells treated with 3 - BrPA only when incubated in glucose - supplemented medium , indicating that 3 - BrPA induces mitochondrial proton leakage as well as blocking the electron transport system .
Thus , VEGF , Ang - 1 and - 2 may play complementary and coordinated roles in airway angiogenesis and microvascular remodeling , and these structural changes are potentially reversible by therapeutic intervention .
BACKGROUND : Neuroblastoma is a childhood tumor that often displays unusual biological behavior .
The treatment of ovarian cancer cells with luteinizing hormone , follicle - stimulating hormone , and estrogen induced a significant upregulation of SEMA3B , whereas SEMA3F was upregulated only by estrogen .
Randomised placebo controlled trials have shown that the phosphodiesterase III inhibitor cilostazol 100mg bid improves pain - free and maximum walking distance , as well as quality of life , in a range of patients with intermittent claudication in whom there is no evidence of tissue necrosis or rest pain .
Severe degeneration of the intestinal mucosa , liver parenchyma , and glomerular and tubular epithelium observed in the saline - treated MTX group was improved by L - Car treatment .
Increased NOS activity is mediated solely by Ca ( 2 + ) - dependent NOS and , as shown by immunoblotting , an upregulation of endothelial NOS .
Metabolic alterations in a noncachectic animal tumor system .
We report one case of advanced gastric cancer with lung and lymph node metastases that completely responded to TS - 1 .
To examine the roles of LMP1 in cell proliferation and growth regulation in primary culture cells , we constructed a recombinant retrovirus containing an LMP1 gene .
Rearrangement of the c - myc gene was common in the plasmacytomas , implying a synergistic role for myc and bcl - 2 in their etiology , but was not detected in the lymphomas .
Curcumin inhibits metastatic progression of breast cancer cell through suppression of urokinase - type plasminogen activator by NF - kappa B signaling pathways .
There was no correlation between HSP27 expression and clinical stage , lymph node metastasis and histological grade .
Fas ( APO - 1 / CD95 ) is a type I membrane protein that is capable of initiating an apoptosis signaling pathway when bound to its ligand ( FasL ) .
Twenty grafts without bone marrow were implanted as controls .
An increase of atrophy over the Retinal Pigment Epithelium ( RPE ) was observed in another patient .
This cell line is not invasive by nature and secretes moderate amounts of VEGF - C ; intrauterine injection of HEC1A cells into Balb / c nude mice resulted in uterine cancer with lymph node metastasis after 8 weeks .
Depletion of ARD1 by shRNA suppressed PCa cell proliferation , anchorage - independent growth , and xenograft tumor formation in SCID mice , suggesting that AR - dependent ARD1 expression is biologically germane .
The formation of new blood vessels from pre - existing ones requires highly coordinated restructuring of endothelial cells ( EC ) and the surrounding extracellular matrix .
Besides their direct toxicity GDPs promote formation of advanced glycation endproducts ( AGEs ) .
CONCLUSION : Quantitative assessment is more sensitive as a measure of cellular protein content as compared with standard optical density measurements .
Furthermore , ubiquitination of cellular proteins was elevated in VHL - deficient cells , particularly after glucose deprivation , supporting a role for the VHL gene in ubiquitin - mediated proteolysis .
CONCLUSIONS : Our study provides new candidate genes for the esophageal cancer microenvironment .
The chromosomal translocation t ( 11 : 14 ) is associated with human lymphoid neoplasia affecting centrocytic B - cells of intermediate differentiation .
OBJECTIVES : This study sought to assess the cellular and histologic basis of irreversible pulmonary hypertension ( PHT ) in the clinical setting of congenital heart disease ( CHD ) .
The nonspecific character of these pathways led us to hypothesize that circulating cancer cells use similar mechanisms , promoting secondary tumor formation at distal sites .
I .
Increased TLX expression was observed in a number of glioma cells and glioma stem cells , and correlated with poor survival of patients with gliomas .
Cell lines were established from tumor and metastases and kept in culture for more than 2 months .
Transformation of BHK hamster fibroblasts by an env - strain of Rous sarcoma virus ( RSV ) leads to the appearance at the cell surface of a virus - induced nonvirion antigen ( VCSA ) , specific for transformation , whose expression is controlled by the transforming src gene .
Paclitaxel treatment resulted in MAPK activation and apoptosis of MDA - MB - 231 breast cancer cells , and both processes were inhibited by Dex pretreatment .
RESULTS : In this article , we report the effects of altering RASSF1C expression in human breast cancer cells .
These findings confirm that cellular immunity is significantly stimulated by IL - 2 only during clinical benefit .
This induction of Ets - 1 may be relevant for reendothelialization by regulating the expression of certain genes .
TGF alpha was studied with the appropriate antibody .
Ovarian cancer is a silent killer , and shows early extensive tumor invasion and peritoneal metastasis .
A perifusion system was designed in order to study glucose and glutamine metabolism by freshly harvested Ehrlich ascites tumour cells in steady state conditions .
Expression of osteoprotegerin and RANK ligand in breast cancer bone metastasis .
Many of the circulatory and transport properties of the sheep placenta are similar to those of the human placenta and as such , the pregnant sheep offers an excellent model in which to study the development of IUGR .
The IGF - 1 gene was transfected into male SMCs and compared with SMCs transfected with a plasmid vector ( vector control ) and nontransfected SMCs ( cell control ) .
Studies , both in human and animal models support the notion that , various angiogenic growth factors and progenitor cells can enhance new blood vessels .
31P MR spectra showed that phosphocreatine was present in H5 spheroids but not in H4 spheroids or tumors .
Despite intensive investigations , the target genes of c - myb that are specifically involved in development of these myeloid lineage neoplasms are still unknown .
Moreover , the ternary combination resulted in a significant increase of VEGF secretion in HT - 29 cancer cells .
These results strongly suggested that the BI - 1 gene might play a crucial role in neoplastic genesis and development .
Keratinocyte progenitor cells from TPA - treated Tg . AC mice were isolated with fluorescence - activated cell sorting and expression was analyzed using cDNA microarray technology .
A considerable number of mutant p53 proteins probably have an oncogenic activity per se and therefore actively participate in cell transformation .
Numerous products from fruits , vegetable and traditional medicinal plants have been described which can suppress TNF expression and TNF signaling but their clinical potential is yet uncertain .
Although only further research will determine the exact nature of VEGF ' s role after seizures , preliminary data indicate that VEGF plays a protective role after seizures .
The capacity of insulin to stimulate the VEGF promoter linked to a luciferase reporter gene was characterized in transient transfection assays .
Protective function of von Hippel - Lindau protein against impaired protein processing in renal carcinoma cells .
Angiogenesis plays a critical role in the growth and metastasis of tumors .
This protein has been shown to be a protein kinase that phosphorylates on tyrosine residues .
FM - MSC and BM - MSC both expressed major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) class I but not MHC class II antigens and did not elicit allogeneic lymphocyte proliferation in mixed lymphocyte culture .
Considering the relatively few number of patients treated by angiogenic therapy , the interpretation of clinical results needs cautiousness .
These results suggest that non - thrombogenic agonists or antagonists of the activated thrombin receptor can be used as modulators of angiogenesis .
It could be demonstrated that RAGE plays a pivotal role in structural damage ( e . g . inflammation , neoangiogenesis and fibrosis ) of the peritoneal membrane .
In the present study , the authors used molecular techniques to analyze the clonal composition of five cases of concurrent adenocarcinomas of the endometrium and ovary that were clinicopathologically diagnosed as synchronous primary tumors .
Troponin I inhibits capillary endothelial cell proliferation by interaction with the cell ' s bFGF receptor .
METHODS : Four hundred eighty - four consecutive eyes of 446 patients treated with PDT from January 1 , 2001 , to June 30 , 2002 , were identified from billing records .
Syndecans are a family of transmembrane heparan sulfate proteoglycans widely expressed in both developing and adult tissues .
Our results reveal an aspect of the precise molecular mechanisms of some breast cancers , in which full invasiveness is not acquired just by intracellular alterations of cancer cells , but extracellular factors from microenvironments may also be necessary .
Pretreatment with aspirin and nimesulide inhibited EC9706 and EC109 cell growth in a time and dose - dependent manner , accompanied with a decrease of prostaglandin E2 production .
Antioxidants significantly reduced TNFalpha - induced genetic damage .
Glutamine consumption in the presence of glucose was higher than with glutamine alone .
While betulin exhibited only moderate anticancer activity in other human cancer cells such as hepatoma SK - HEP - 1 cells , prostate carcinoma PC - 3 , and lung carcinoma NCI - H460 , with IC ( 50 ) values ranging from 20 to 60 microg / mL , it showed minor growth inhibition in human erythroleukemia K562 cells ( IC ( 50 ) > 100 microg / mL ) .
Previous work demonstrates that the LMP1 gene of EBV is sufficient to transform certain established rodent fibroblast cell lines and to induce the tumorigenicity of some human epithelial cell lines .
The antiangiogenic agent linomide inhibits the growth rate of von Hippel - Lindau paraganglioma xenografts to mice .
The mechanism of Notch signaling remains poorly understood .
Until recently , their role in pathogenesis was largely unexplored .
As a result of paracrine signal transmission , the effects of Hedgehog signaling most profoundly influence the stromal cells that constitute the tumor microenvironment .
MATERIAL AND METHODS : Human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVEC ) were treated with cisplatin and endothelial cell migration analyzed by fluorescence and scratch - wound migration assay .
In hPNAS - 4 - p - treated tumor cells in vivo , tumor growth significantly decreased , while the survival time of tumor - bearing mice was prolonged compared with control groups ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
Sci .
Parathyroid hormone - related protein ( PTHrP ) is a secreted factor expressed in almost all normal fetal and adult tissues .
The same result was obtained when the model contained ER status and ER - tamoxifen interaction .
p53 is a protein with many talents .
Protein expression was statistically compared to the degree of immune cell infiltration and microvessel density in epithelial - derived ovarian tumors and a significant correlation was observed for both .
Estimated and true 5 - 10 year overall survival rates from first line antiestrogen and distant metastases were higher than previously reported in a similar population .
These results indicate that ING4 has an important role in brain tumour pathogenesis .
The sequential activation of caspase - 9 and caspase - 3 / - 7 and the cleavage of poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase ( PARP ) were observed behind those mitochondrial events .
Cells were perifused in the presence of 5 mM glucose , 0 . 5 mM glutamine or 5 mM glucose and 0 . 5 mM glutamine .
The p53 and VEGF staining statuses were coincident in only 21 % of the tumors , and no significant correlation was found between p53 and VEGF statuses .
Tumour angiogenesis : its mechanism and therapeutic implications in malignant gliomas .
The transformed cells were cloned after in vivo tumorigenic assay , and 4 clones were analyzed for osteonectin expression by Northern blots .
One of the angiostatin isoforms , that is , angiostatin 4 . 5 ( AS4 . 5 ) , consisting of plasminogen kringle 1 to 4 and a most part of kringle 5 , is produced by autoproteolysis and present in human plasma .
This analysis revealed a total of 22 protein - spots whose expression was altered by more than 3 - folds .
In addition to giving a historical perspective on HTLV - 1 and other retrovirus research , this paper discusses the origin of HTLV - 1 ; the modes of transmission and global epidemiology of HTLV - 1 infection ; the genome of HTLV - 1 and the mechanism of HTLV - 1 - induced leukemogenesis ; the role of HTLV - 1 in other diseases , and recent breakthroughs in ATL therapy .
To evaluate the role of VEGF - C in lymph node metastasis , we developed an animal model by using an endometrial cancer cell line , HEC1A .
TNF - alpha is also an essential component of the immune system and is required for hematopoiesis , for protection from bacterial infection and for immune cell - mediated cytotoxicity .
Little difference was observed in their transforming efficiency ( 0 . 2 - 0 . 3 transformants / micrograms DNA ) between the combinations of oncogenes applied but a tendency was noted that cells transfected with ras or src in combination with myc developed the capacity to grow for a longer period and differentiated at a later stage than those transfected solely with ras or src .
Therefore , in the situation without peritoneal involvement , hyperfibrinogenemia is a useful biomarker to predict the possible metastasis and worse clinical outcome in T2 gastric cancer .
Vitamins regulate gene expression and induce differentiation and growth inhibition in cancer cells .
In cultured stable Grm1 - mouse - melanocytic clones , as well as an metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 ( Grm1 ) expressing human melanoma cell line , C8161 , stimulation of Grm1 by its agonist led to the activation of AKT , while preincubation with Grm1 - antagonist abolished Grm1 - agonist - induced AKT activation .
This suggests that the repression of the N - myc promoter is mediated through the WT1 binding sites .
By specifically and potently inhibiting tumor Hsp90 , PU24FCl exhibits wide - ranging anti - cancer activities that occur at similar doses in all tested tumor types .
Histologically , both 2G7 - treated and control tumors were identical .
Simultaneous involvement of the endometrium and the ovary by carcinoma is a familiar problem in the routine practice of surgical pathology .
20 - HETE also increased the phosphorylation of p42 / p44 mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) in EC , whereas an inhibitor of MAPK [ U0126 , 1 , 4 - diamino - 2 , 3 - dicyano - 1 , 4 - bis ( 2 - aminophenylthio ) butadiene ] suppressed the proliferative and the VEGF changes but not the pro - oxidant effects of 20 - HETE .
In contrast , osteoprotegerin ( OPG ) inhibits osteoclast development .
In acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) with t ( 7 ; 11 ) translocation , the HOX A9 gene is rearranged .
WT1 was isolated as a tumor suppressor gene of Wilms tumor .
Interestingly , neovascularization of the implants irradiated with 10 fractions ( 3000 cGy ) was not significantly decreased compared with irradiation with three fractions ( 900 cGy ) .
Adult mutants became sterile males due to the meiotic arrest of spermatocytes , which then died by apoptosis , followed by neoplastic proliferation of gonad somatic cells that was similar to neoplasia observed in ageing dead end ( dnd ) - knockdown males , which lack germ cells .
We report that curcumin induces cell shrinkage , chromatin condensation , and DNA fragmentation , characteristics of apoptosis , in immortalized mouse embryo fibroblast NIH 3T3 erb B2 oncogene - transformed NIH 3T3 , mouse sarcoma S180 , human colon cancer cell HT - 29 , human kidney cancer cell 293 , and human hepatocellular carcinoma Hep G2 cells , but not in primary culture of mouse embryonic fibroblast C3H 10T1 / 2 , rat embryonic fibroblast , and human foreskin fibroblast cells in a concentration - and time - dependent manner .
To study Hedgehog signaling in vivo a hind limb tumor model with the B16F0 cell line was used .
Together , the data establish that acute ethanol exposure significantly impairs angiogenesis and suggest that this effect is mediated by changes in endothelial cell responsiveness to both VEGF and hypoxia .
ICAM - 3 also increased Akt phosphorylation , which caused an increase in cellular migration / invasion and MMP activities .
Since the HTR8 line has a limited in vitro lifespan of 12 - 15 passages , SV40 Tag - transformed cells were selected on the basis of extended lifespan .
CONCLUSIONS / SIGNIFICANCE : Together these data suggest that lymph node metastasis and poor survival in invasive ductal breast carcinoma are linked to an uncoupling of the Akt - FOXO3a signaling axis .
TSP - 1 inhibits angiogenesis by inhibiting endothelial cell migration and proliferation and by inducing apoptosis .
We conducted a retrospective medical record review of patients treated with rofecoxib for acute haemarthrosis , chronic synovitis , target joint or pain .
The initial step of adhesion was mediated by sialyl Lewis ( x ) ( Le ( x ) ) and sialyl Le ( a ) , the carbohydrate determinants expressed on the cancer cells , and E - selectin expressed constitutively on F - 2 cells .
A STAT3 - mediated metabolic switch is involved in tumour transformation and STAT3 addiction .
UK infusion prior to 5 - fluorouracil increased tissue concentration of antitumor agent .
Consistent with this hypothesis , inhibition of Erbb2 in v - ras ( Ha ) transgenic mice before UV exposure resulted in both 56 % fewer skin tumors and tumors that were 70 % smaller .
To delineate the roles that oxygen and fibroblast growth factors ( FGFs ) play in the process of angiogenesis from the embryonic aorta , we cultured mouse embryonic aorta explants ( thoracic level to lateral vessels supplying the mesonephros and metanephros ) in a three - dimensional type I collagen gel matrix .
In conclusion , HAH - cortisol represents the prototype of a new class of angiogenesis inhibitors for the treatment of cancer and other angiogenic diseases .
Vascular endothelial growth factor - C ( VEGF - C ) plays a crucial role in lymphangiogenesis , and is implicated to play an important role in lymph node metastasis .
In the mammary carcinoma experiment , vascular permeability measured by means of B22956 / 1 in the animals treated with the antiangiogenic drug ( 0 . 0043317 + / - 0 . 0040418 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) ) was significantly less than in untreated animals ( 0 . 0090460 + / - 0 . 0043680 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) ) , whereas no significant difference was observed with Gd - DTPA - albumin ( 13 . 14 + / - 13 . 94 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) in treated animals and 18 . 07 + / - 11 . 92 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) in untreated animals ) .
Vital imaging using high - resolution ultrasound enhanced with contrast microbubbles revealed that the effects of LeTx on tumor perfusion were remarkably rapid ( less than 24 h ) and resulted in a marked reduction of perfusion within the tumor but not in nontumor tissues .
RESULTS : All the primary breast cancers and the lymph node metastases were positive for Glut - 1 .
In spheroids , the glucose consumption ( 2 . 1 p mole / cell / h ) and lactate production ( 3 . 67 p mole / cell / h ) was nearly 2 - 3 fold higher than in monolayer cells ( 0 . 83 and 1 . 43 p mole / cell / h respectively ) .
The role of p53 in glucose metabolism .
N - myc overrode the metabolic protection provided by Bcl - 2 - induced oxidative phosphorylation by reestablishing the glycolytic phenotype and attenuated the antiapoptotic effect of Bcl - 2 during metabolic stress .
We also showed ICAM - 3 - induced cell migration and invasion in NCI - H460 NSCLC cells ( wild - type p53 and PTEN cell ) through the same signaling pathway .
Immunohistochemistry examinations in the human surgical specimens have shown that a downregulation of TSP - 1 during the progression of cervical carcinogenesis was accompanied by an emergence in the upregulation of stroma markers , alpha - smooth muscle actin ( alpha - SMA ) and desmin .
S . c . injection into nude mice with mixed - cell populations formed tumors that approximate the ratio of vGPCR - expressing and KSHV latent gene - expressing cells .
We further support this hypothesis by providing the first evidence that TnI can act on nonendothelial as well as endothelial cells and by demonstrating that this inhibitory action is specific for the bFGF receptor on the target cells .
Enforced expression of tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase - 3 affects functional capillary morphogenesis and inhibits tumor growth in a murine tumor model .
Recent evidence suggests the existence of endothelial precursors in adult bone marrow cells , but it is unclear whether those precursors have a role in tumor neovascularization .
Brick1 ( Brk1 ) is the less - studied component of the Wave / Scar pathway involved in the branched nucleation of actin fibers .
Further tumour inhibition studies showed that STX243 was also active against MCF - 7 paclitaxel - resistant tumours .
Furthermore , immunoreactivity assay of cytoskeletal F - actin demonstrated a significant inhibitory effect of GA treatment .
Differential regulation of in vivo angiogenesis by angiotensin II receptors .
Antibodies developed to human endosialin were used to investigate endosialin expression and function in human prenatal brain pericytes and pericytes residing in tumors .
We analyzed their ability to block endothelial cell chemotaxis and induce apoptosis in vitro and their antiangiogenic activity in vivo .
This cellular interaction was tumor - specific , although isolated granules could enhance fibroblast proliferation .
To assess the lymphoid tumorigenic potential of bcl - 2 , mice of five independent strains expressing a bcl - 2 transgene in B and / or T cells were monitored for disease up to 12 months of age .
These data confirm the importance of tissue architecture and polarity in malignant progression .
In this report we studied the effects of SFLLR , an agonist of the activated thrombin receptor and thrombin receptor peptide and non peptide antagonists on angiogenesis in the chick chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) system .
Transformed cells exhibited lower levels of RNA as compared with normal fibroblasts .
These findings suggest that the anticarcinogenic effects of ACA might be partly due to perturbation of the polyamine metabolic pathway and triggering of caspase - 3 - like activity , which result in apoptosis .
These new functions of p53 are providing interesting possibilities for the development of novel therapies .
Our results leave unexplained the observation that nm23 - H1 allelic deletion correlates with metastatic potential of colon carcinomas .
Lysophosphatidic acid downregulates tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases , which are negatively involved in lysophosphatidic acid - induced cell invasion .
The aims of the present study were to compare , in vitro and in vivo , the antiangiogenic and antitumor activities of metronomic irinotecan ( CPT - 11 ) , oxaliplatin ( L - OHP ) and 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) in colorectal cancer and to investigate the metronomic combination of these drugs .
Recent data suggest that activation of the integrin - associated protein CD47 promotes neuronal cell death .
Enhanced expression of PTEN by gene transfer is sufficient to reverse the malignant phenotype of ovarian cancer cells and transfection of ovarian cancer cells with wild - type PTEN gene might be another novel approach for therapeutic intervention in ovarian cancer .
In the present study , we investigated the antiangiogenic mechanism of 3 , 6 - di ( 2 , 3 - epoxypropoxy ) xanthone ( EPOX ) , a novel Mcl - 1 targeting drug .
Epithelial keratitis and corneal edema also developed in the immunized animals during the first week after virus challenge , but these symptoms rapidly resolved during the following weeks .
The disintegrin - like and cysteine - rich domains of ADAM - 9 mediate interactions between melanoma cells and fibroblasts .
TTF - 1 staining was present in 31 of the 40 ( 78 % ) metastatic lung carcinomas , but in only 1 of the 31 ( 3 % ) metastatic nonpulmonary carcinomas ( a small - cell carcinoma of the sinonasal tract ) .
Allogeneic injection of fetal membrane - derived mesenchymal stem cells induces therapeutic angiogenesis in a rat model of hind limb ischemia .
The Wilms tumor suppressor gene WT1 induces G1 arrest and apoptosis in myeloblastic leukemia M1 cells .
Both h - MVD and VEGF immunoreactivity were statistically associated with lymph node metastasis ( P = . 012 and . 037 , respectively ) .
METHODS : An mIL - 12 expression vector driven by cytomegalovirus promoter was used to express murine IL - 12 cDNA in the RM - 9 murine prostate carcinoma cell line .
Moreover , both the accelerated translation and the previously reported reactive oxygen species - mediated stabilization of HIF - 1alpha protein were essential to the activation of HIF - 1 .
Modulating metastasis by a lymphangiogenic switch in prostate cancer .
HGF constitutively produced VEGF and levels were significantly enhanced ( P less than 0 . 01 ) by stimulation with Ve and OMP from A . actinomycetemcomitans and P . gingivalis at concentrations of 10 microg / ml or higher .
In addition , we define the minimal domain of N1 ( ic ) required to induce transformation and present evidence that transformation of RKE cells by N1 ( ic ) is likely to be through a CBF1 - independent pathway .
p - XSC effectively inhibits AR expression and transcriptional activity in both cell lines .
We also report that SPARC arrests monomeric collagen - supported smooth muscle cell proliferation in the late G1 - phase of the cell cycle in the absence of an effect on cell shape or on levels of cyclin - dependent kinase inhibitors .
Moreover , expression of a dominant negative AP - 2 protein , AP - 2delta ( deleted residues 31 - 117 ) , not only repressed the ErbB - 3 promoter activity but also suppressed endogenous ErbB - 3 transcription in the ErbB - 3 overexpressing cell line MRC - 5VA .
BMP expression and activation was measured by PCR and reporter assays .
None of the test drugs demonstrated significant anti - edema activity .
Antiprogestin RU - 486 inhibits the induction of VEGF and TSP - 1 by progestins , suggesting that this effect of progestin is mediated by the progesterone receptor ( PR ) .
The deficiency in the p53 - mediated regulation of glycolysis and mitochondrial respiration greatly accounts for the deficient respiration of the predominance of aerobic glycolysis in cancer cells ( the Warburg effect ) , while the deficiency in the p53 - modulated antioxidant defense mechanisms contributes to mutagenesis and additionally boosts the carcinogenesis process .
The activity of the Tie1 promoter is suppressed by shear stress and by tumor necrosis factor alpha .
[ Clinical significance of interleukin - 6 ( IL - 6 ) as a prognostic factor of cancer disease ]
Importantly , a striking increase in the expression of specific PTPases , LAR and PTP1B , was observed in 3 independently neu transformed cell lines and their derived tumors .
AMI control group received equal volume physiological saline .
We also analysed the association of patients ' prognosis with clinical parameters and the histological classification of the carcinomatous component .
Hedgehog signaling : networking to nurture a promalignant tumor microenvironment .
This followed from several characteristics of the immune complex kinase reactions and especially from the strong inhibition of p53 phosphorylation by two anti - large - T monoclonal antibodies .
Over a million FDG - PET studies have unequivocally identified increased glucose uptake as a hallmark of metastatic cancer in humans .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : In the present study , we investigated the effects of 2ME2 alone and in combination with paclitaxel , an active agent in recurrent or advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
We investigated the mechanism by which ephrin - B1 promotes membrane ruffling in human aortic endothelial cells , because membrane ruffling heralds cell body migration .
CONCLUSION : Immunohistochemically confirmed significance of the expression of VEGF in dependence of the CML stage could be of clinical importance in deciding on the timing therapy .
Although pancreatic cancer is the fifth common cause of cancer death in Western countries , current options in treatment enable a 5 - yr survival rate for all stages of less than 5 % .
The clinical significance of MTSS1 will also be discussed .
TEMF treatment continued for 3 additional weeks .
Recent studies have revealed important roles for miRNAs in regulating endothelial cell ( EC ) function , especially angiogenesis .
Extracellular matrix as a bioactive material for soft tissue reconstruction .
Thus , these results together suggest that sunitinib initially exerts its apoptotic effect through the inhibition of VEGFR - 2 , which , when followed by reduction of its downstream effectors , including Akt / mTOR / S6K1 , may lead to inhibition of the antiapoptotic molecule Bcl - 2 and activation of the proapoptotic molecule BAD in PC12 cells .
Because there is little information on the expression of topo I in colorectal tumors , this study evaluated and characterized topo I protein expression in primary colorectal cancer and lymph node metastases and studied the association between topo I protein expression and clinicopathologic data , p53 status , and proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( PCNA ) status .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : The paraffin sections from 49 subjects with OSCC were subjected to immunohistochemical studies to measure the highest MVD ( h - MVD ) and cytoplasmic immunoreactivity of VEGF .
The purpose of the immune system is to protect cells from invasion by microorganisms .
The expression of PTEN mRNA and protein was negatively correlated with lymph node metastasis of advanced gastric carcinomas ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Restoration occurred in the presence of a protein synthesis inhibitor but not after a transcriptional block , indicating that c - myc is a direct , transcriptionally regulated target of c - Myb .
We further estimated the threshold of APC protein level that forms one polyp per mouse as approximately 15 % of the wild type .
A number of epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) deletion mutants have been identified in gliomas , in which the EGFR gene is frequently amplified and rearranged .
Parental NIH 3T3 - derived cells had both 72 kDa and 92 kDa gelatinase activities , and LTA - derived cells had either aberrantly sized approximately 90 kDa activity alone or neither enzyme activity .
This study was aimed to investigate whether there is selective expression of these cytolytic markers in the putative NK - cell lymphomas and whether there is correlation with zonal tumor cell death in these tumors .
However , whether hemostatic factors contribute directly or indirectly to the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis remains uncertain .
Whether sex steroids affect IL - 8 secretion of normal breast tissue or breast cancer is not known .
In animal studies , 1B3 significantly enhanced the antitumor and the anti - angiogenic activities of DC101 , an antibody directed against mouse vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 , in a pancreatic ( BxPC - 3 ) and a non - small cell lung ( NCI - H460 ) tumor xenograft models .
From mechanisms to therapy and prevention .
RAF265 also inhibited FDG accumulation in tumor xenografts after 1 day of drug treatment .
Paradoxically , OSM can also suppress the growth of normal cells and certain tumor - derived cell lines .
PURPOSE : The matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) are a family of proteolytic enzymes involved in tumor invasion ; several individual members of which have been implicated in tumor prognosis .
Since glucose phosphorylation is the first step in glycolysis , hexokinase ( HK ) , the first rate limiting glycolytic enzyme , can play a key regulatory role in this process .
Taken together , these results demonstrate that overexpression of TIMP - 3 can inhibit angiogenesis and associated tumor growth , and that the antiangiogenic effects of TIMP - 3 appear to be mediated through the inhibition of functional capillary morphogenesis .
Intracerebral grafting of cultured autologous skin fibroblasts into the rat striatum : an assessment of graft size and ultrastructure .
Lysophosphatidic acid ( LPA ) levels are elevated in ascites from ovarian cancer patients , but its potential role in ovarian cancer metastasis has just begun to be revealed .
Rhizochalin is a two - headed sphingolipid - like compound isolated from the sponge Rhizochalina incrustata .
It suggests that TB4 could be a hypoxia responsive regulator to control tumor cell migration in angiogenesis and tumor metastasis .
In the presence of both glucose and glutamine , the Crabtree effect decreased .
The clinical relevance of Brk1 is emphasized by correlative data showing that Von Hippel - Lindau ( VHL ) patients that also lose the BRK1 gene are protected against the development of tumors .
The increased migration ability and the invasive ability into tumor cluster of TGF - beta - treated NIH3T3 cells were dose dependently inhibited by TSP - 1 .
We have , therefore , examined components of this plasminogen activating system in patients with Non - Small Cell Lung Cancer ( NSCLC ) .
When transplanted in nude mice , tumors formed by the v - Src transformed SWAP - 70 ( - / - ) MEFs were smaller than those formed by cells expressing exogenous SWAP - 70 .
The results were analysed using quantitative immunohistochemical analysis .
E mu cyclin D1 transgenic mice show only very subtle alterations in the cycling behaviour of B - cell populations in the bone marrow compared with normal mice and do not develop lymphoid tumours .
PURPOSE : To assess the safety and effectiveness of photodynamic therapy ( PDT ) with verteporfin for subfoveal choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) secondary to pathologic myopia ( PM ) .
The primary site of nucleic acid synthesis , which was blocked by 3 - chloromethylthiochromone , was at orotidine monophosphate decarboxylase in the primidine pathway .
Transporters , enzymes , and enalapril removal in a rat ( CC531 - induced ) liver metastatic model .
Myeloma cells counteracted the metabolic stress by activating autophagy .
This earlier apoptosis was accompanied by a Bcl - 2 decrease and a p53 increase .
When goldfish erythrophores isolated from the skin by tissue digestion and centrifugation in a Percoll density gradient were transfected in a monolayer - culture with v - Ha - ras or v - src oncogene either singly or in combination with v - myc by means of calcium phosphate - DNA co - precipitation , there appeared a certain number of transformants manifesting a chromatoblast - like profile and tumorous phenotypes as seen in the capability for unlimited growth , and piling - up in a monolayer - culture or colony formation in semi - solid soft agar .
The expression level of EphA2 had a statistically significant relationship with liver metastasis , lymphatic vessel invasion and clinical stage ( p = 0 . 0477 , 0 . 0316 and 0 . 0467 , respectively ) .
An analysis of the Pbx1 promoter region revealed that Evi - 1 upregulates Pbx1 transcription .
Thus , our results suggest that sustained FOXO3a activation can enhance hyperactivation of the PI3K / Akt pathway .
Mutant mice lacking both cyclin - dependent kinase ( CDK ) inhibitors p18 ( Ink4c ) and p27 ( Kip1 ) develop a tumor spectrum reminiscent of human multiple endocrine neoplasia ( MEN ) syndromes .
OSCC sublines were established from a GFP - expressing parental cell line , GSAS , and designated GSAS / N3 and N5 according to the in vivo passage number after cervical lymph node metastasis by a serial orthotopic transplantation model .
Consequently , mitochondrial integrity is compromised , and the caspase - 9 - dependent cascade is activated in treated tumor cells .
Inhibition by N - ( phosphonacetyl ) - L - aspartate of Ehrlich ascites tumour growth and glucose transport .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is one of the most potent and a specific regulator of angiogenesis which principally targets endothelial cells and regulates several of their functions , including mitogenesis , permeability and migration .
Dopamine administration leads to increased VEGF - induced phosphorylation of SHP - 2 and this increased phosphorylation parallels the increased phosphatase activity of SHP - 2 .
In addition , this study mechanistically implicates IRSp53 in the signaling nexus between activated Cdc42 and Mena , both of which have previously been shown to be involved with Robo4 signaling in endothelial cells .
External beam radiotherapy for subretinal neovascularization in age - related macular degeneration : is this treatment efficient ?
Recent research suggests that EPCs have an important role in tumor vasculogenesis .
Although the number of mutations in the APC and beta - catenin genes in our CRC cases was very low , the study confirms the role of epigenetic gene silencing of the pivotal molecular gladiator , APC , of the Wnt pathway in the development of CRC in the Kashmiri population .
Notably , three immortalizing E6 mutants that do not induce direct p53 degradation but do interact with hADA3 induced the abrogation of p53 - mediated transactivation and G ( 1 ) cell cycle arrest after DNA damage , comparable to wild - type E6 .
These transcripts were localized in stromal fibroblasts adjacent to the neoplastic foci .
Since the function of 9E3 / CEF4 is unknown , we examined the effect of the protein on mitogenicity and chemotaxis , as well as its expression , in fibroblasts and peripheral blood cells .
Effects of dietary folate on ulcerative colitis - associated colorectal carcinogenesis in the interleukin 2 - and beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin - deficient mice .
We have investigated the expression of osteonectin gene in fresh BALB / c fibroblasts transformed by v - Ki - ras .
KISS1 methylation was associated with low KISS1 transcript expression by quantitative RT - PCR ( P = 0 . 037 ) .
Here we produced a neutralizing antibody , 1B3 , directed against mouse PDGFRbeta .
To further analyze RhoA function in thyroid cell proliferation and differentiation patterns , we combined transient and stable transfection assays to express different mutant RhoA forms in FRTL - 5 cells .
The presence of microvascular proliferation leads to the histological diagnosis of glioblastoma multiforme .
ELISA found the presence of vascular endothelial growth factors ( VEGF ) both in the tested oral cancer cells and NOK .
In immunohistochemical analysis , rk - 2 reduced expression of vascular endothelial growth factor , which is a potent angiogenic activator and neovascularization in the mouse lung .
Furthermore , we investigated the correlation between CXCR4 expression and the clinical features of 221 gastric cancer tissue samples .
These proteins are mainly produced by specific integral parts of the viral genome , the oncogenes .
The ability of E7 to complex with p600 correlated with its ability to enhance anchorage independence of BPV - 1 E6 - expressing cells .
However , the transfer of either the p16 or Rb gene to glioma cells results in cytostatic effect .
Few studies have investigated the association between p53 and VEGF expressions and prognosis in esophageal carcinoma .
These experimental facts indicated that acquisition of metastatic ability coupled with the function of K - ras oncogene was conditional in nature , being strongly affected by in vivo tumor circumstances .
In contrast , in the presence of GM - CSF or FBS , apoptosis was enhanced upon addition of CHX or Act D .
Furthermore , there is strong evidence suggesting that aberrant activation of Wnt signaling induces mammary tumors from stem / progenitor cells , and that Wnt exerts its oncogenic effects through LRP5 / 6 - mediated activation of beta - catenin and mTOR pathways .
There was no correlation of survivin with bcl - 2 or bax expression , or with other prognostic parameters ( age , tumor size , histologic type , histologic grade , nodal status , and tumor stage ) ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
In this study , we hypothesized that ICAM - 3 has an additional effect on cancer cell migration and invasion because molecules induced by ICAM - 3 are known as regulators of cell migration and invasion .
The expression of TIMP1 suggests that the anti - proteolytic stimuli may be preponderant in p63 - positive carcinomas .
miRNA - 126 , an EC - restricted miRNA , regulates vascular integrity and developmental angiogenesis .
More recent data have demonstrated the existence of two human nm23 gene homologues , nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 , and have shown that deletion of nm23 - H1 alleles occurs in some colon carcinomas associated with poor prognosis .
CONCLUSIONS : VEGF - A ( 165 ) is one of the major angiogenesis regulators among the ligands ' family of VEGF , whereas its receptors KDR , and most probably Flt - 1 , may contribute to a poor prognosis ( angiogenic ) phenotype , as indicated by their upregulated MRNA levels in stage III neuroblastoma .
Constitutively nuclear FOXO3a localization predicts poor survival and promotes Akt phosphorylation in breast cancer .
Mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) activities were investigated to explore the mechanism of this induction .
The biological effect of the perfluorocarbon - based artificial oxygen carrier ( Oxygent ) was investigated in tissue - engineered trachea ( TET ) construction .
Since other DNA tumor viruses , such as simian virus 40 and adenovirus , have previously been shown to interact with cellular protein p53 , we investigated whether infection of cells by HCMV would modulate cellular p53 levels .
Finally , anti - p53 monoclonal antibodies only slightly affected in vitro phosphorylation reactions , whereas a p53 molecule from a simian virus 40 - free , chemically transformed human cell line was not phosphorylated in vitro under any condition tested .
In vivo , ethanol exposure caused both decreased angiogenesis and increased hypoxia in wounds .
It is believed that the role of the E1B - 55kDa protein in transformation is to protect against p53 - dependent apoptosis by binding to and inactivating p53 .
In the embryonic stem cells homozygous for these hypomorphic Apc alleles , the level of the APC protein was inversely correlated with both the beta - catenin accumulation and beta - catenin / T - cell factor transcriptional activity .
Growth of both histologic types of gene - modified tumor cells in severe combined immunodeficiency ( SCID ) mice was significantly restricted when compared with controls .
They were treated with HBO in 56 + / - 10 consecutive HBO sessions .
Compared with control animals transfected with LacZ , site - specific transfection of phVEGF resulted in augmented collateral vessel development documented by serial angiography , and improvement in calf blood pressure ratio ( ischemic to normal limb ) , resting and maximum blood flow , and capillary to myocyte ratio .
Cancer 2010 .
Tumour - specific distribution of BRCA1 promoter region methylation supports a pathogenetic role in breast and ovarian cancer .
IFN - alpha / beta signalling itself does not activate p53 ; rather , it contributes to boosting p53 responses to stress signals .
These results indicate that HIF - 1 functions as a master regulator of angiogenesis by controlling the expression of multiple angiogenic growth factors and that adenovirus - mediated expression of a constitutively active form of HIF - 1alpha is sufficient to induce angiogenesis in nonischemic tissue of an adult animal .
The epithelioid cells were entirely supported by proliferated capillaries and arteries together with collagenous stroma .
CONCLUSION : Not only tumor cells but also TAMs secrete the VEGF - C in OSCC , and TAMs may play a major role in peritumoral lymphatic neoangiogenesis and lymphatic metastasis .
There are currently no other means of treatment for this disorder , which has a high morbidity and mortality rate .
Additionally , the synergistic apoptotic effects of MOG with As2O3 were detected in HL - 60 and primary AML cells , but not in normal cells , suggesting the selective toxicity of their combination to the malignant cells .
When the patients were divided into two groups according to their alpha - SMA expression using a cutoff point at the mean value of 8 . 48 % , the high alpha - SMA group had a significantly poorer overall survival rate ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
Six edentulous patients ( aged 60 + / - 9 years ) with a severely atrophic mandible underwent bone augmentation with distraction osteogenesis .
These findings reveal a novel strategy of HPV E6 - induced loss of p53 function that is independent of direct p53 degradation .
Reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) produced in the course of cellular oxidative phosphorylation , and by activated phagocytic cells during oxidative bursts , exceed the physiological buffering capacity and result in oxidative stress .
Mutations in colonic adenomas , and the frequent losses on 4q described in gastric cancer prompt speculation about the role of CDC4 / FBXW7 in gastric carcinogenesis .
HSP27 expression was positive staining ( + ) in 20 ( 50 % ) , weak or negative staining ( - ) in 20 ( 50 % ) of total 40 cases .
The effects of this compound on the vascular development lend credibility to its potential as an anticancer agent .
The area and the area ratio were measured using a calibrated micrometer .
Treatment with tunicamycin produced a 40 - 50 % inhibition of 2 - deoxyglucose uptake and this was associated with a 2 - 2 . 5 - fold decrease in transporter affinity for glucose ( Km ) without a change in Vmax .
Adenovirus 5 early region 1A ( E1A ) has been shown to exhibit high tumor suppressor activity , and gene therapy using E1A has been tested in clinical trials .
We present evidence that apoptosis of caspase - 3 - deficient MCF - 7 breast cancer cells is defective in response to cisplatin treatment , as determined by chromatin condensation , nuclear fragmentation , DNA fragmentation , and release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria .
Tumour angiogenesis is an important factor for tumour growth and metastasis .
Since ras genes have been found to be frequently activated in human tumours , we examined the levels of ras p21 in the sera of a variety of human cancer patients .
We have investigated the mechanism by which the simian virus 40 large T antigen ( SVLT ) interferes with the differentiation of C2 myoblasts .
PURPOSE : Tumor fibroblasts ( TF ) have been suggested to play an essential role in the complex process of tumor - stroma interactions and tumorigenesis .
Ets - 1 , a transcription factor , is induced in endothelial cells ( ECs ) during angiogenesis .
Simultaneous and continuous exposure of HT - 29 and HMVEC - d cells to low concentrations SN - 38 + L - OHP + 5 - FU for 144 h showed a strong antagonism and an unfavorable dose - reduction index .
These included 40 ( 56 % ) metastases from a primary lung carcinoma and 31 ( 44 % ) metastases from some nonpulmonary carcinoma .
Expression of GTP or GDP - bound Rab5a mutants block activated VEGFR2 trafficking and degradation .
Western blotting analysis showed that liposomal honokiol - inhibited Akt and MAPK phosphorylation in 2 endothelial cells , and downregulated expressions of VEGFR - 2 of human vascular endothelial cells and VEGFR - 3 of lymphatic endothelial cells .
Furthermore , we have searched for the underlying mechanisms of apoptosis by demonstrating apoptosis - related genes .
Bmi - 1 transgenic mice were born with enlarged lateral ventricles and a minority developed idiopathic hydrocephalus as adults , but none of the transgenic mice formed detectable CNS tumors , even when aged .
Intimal proliferation was present in 10 of 11 irreversible PHT cases , but never observed in reversible PHT ( p less than 0 . 001 ) .
Additional rats underwent partial hepatectomy , an immunosuppressive procedure known to accelerate the growth of hepatic tumor , following tumor challenge .
METHODS : Gene silencing and over - expression techniques were used to modulate RASSF1C expression in human breast cancer cells .
More apoptotic tumor cells were seen under the transmission electron microscope .
Role of stromal myofibroblasts in invasive breast cancer : stromal expression of alpha - smooth muscle actin correlates with worse clinical outcome .
Presymposium and postsymposium tests were administered , and respondent answers were compared between pediatric dentists and endodontists .
The integration of vascular grading in clinical trials on adjuvant chemotherapy and / or radiotherapy could substantially contribute in defining groups of operable patients who might benefit from cytotoxic treatment .
In damaged and inflamed tissue , LL - 37 functions as a chemoattractant , mitogen and pro - angiogenic factor suggesting that the peptide may potentiate tumor progression .
This creates a network of Hedgehog signaling that determines the malignant behavior of the tumor cells .
All the grafts older than three weeks had complete endothelialization and maintained their patency .
Convergence of p53 and TGF - beta signaling networks .
In addition , reverse transcription - polymerase chain reaction and prostaglandin E ( 2 ) ( PGE ( 2 ) ) immunoassay were performed to verify whether BV possesses an inhibitory effect on the expression of cyclooxygenase ( COX ) and PGE ( 2 ) synthesis .
The concept of the neurovascular unit emphasizes that common signals and substrates underlie the physiology and pathophysiology of neuronal and endothelial compartments in brain .
However , biochemical screening cannot reliably discriminate the transition from C - cell hyperplasia to invasive microcarcinoma .
Here we targeted M2 - PK by synthetic peptide aptamers , which specifically bind to M2 - PK and shift the isoenzyme into its low affinity dimeric conformation .
Is it possible that CD47 may also negatively affect cerebral endothelial cells ?
It is proposed that these proteins be called , respectively , p40xI and p37xII .
The higher mortality rate in the folate - deficient group compared with the other two groups ( 25 % versus 6 . 5 % and 5 . 6 % , P < 0 . 02 ) partially accounted for the low incidence of high - grade lesions in this group .
The apparent mesenchymal to epithelial conversion of the tumor cells mimics the conversion that occurs during embryonic kidney development , suggesting that Met - HGF / SF signaling plays a role in this process as well as in tumors that express both epithelial and mesenchymal markers .
Studies were therefore performed with PECAM - 1 - null mice to further define the involvement of PECAM - 1 in blood vessel formation .
The delayed application of corticosteroids after treatment with antimycotic drugs in cases of fungal keratitis is therefore not contraindicated and may be beneficial in patients .
Tumor volume and total hemoglobin in allograft mice treated with 50 mg / kg DATS were significantly smaller than that in the control group .
The prototype system proved relatively easy to operate .
Similar differences in NME protein levels were observed in tumors induced by the two cell lines in nude mice .
Pharmacological inhibition of the proteasome prevents the degradation of Hck correlating with an increase in the phosphotyrosine levels within the cells .
Expression of nm23 - H1 gene product in metastatic lymph nodes was also unrelated to patients survival .
Samples were assayed for glucose , lactate , and insulin concentrations and compared statistically with ten control dogs of similar weight and age undergoing an identical dextrose challenge .
In addition , detailed metabolic assessment of these MEFs confirmed their dependence on glycolysis , and an elevated rate of lactate efflux , associated with the upregulation of glycolytic enzymes known to be associated with tumorigenesis .
RESULTS : Cell clones expressing elevated levels of p75 showed a high degree of apoptosis even in 10 % serum - supplemented medium .
On the other hand , when cells were pre - incubated in glucose - supplemented medium , oxygen consumption was affected only when succinate was used as the oxidizable substrate .
They are also known to trigger free radical generation .
Together , we proposed that MOG alone or administered with other anticancer agents may provide a novel therapeutic strategy for leukemia .
No significant association between p53 and VEGF expressions and poor prognosis was found .
Membrane - anchored Cbl suppresses Hck protein - tyrosine kinase mediated cellular transformation .
The metastatic potentials of several human prostate cancer xenograft models , LAPC - 4 , LAPC - 9 , PC3 and CWR22Rv - 1 were compared .
When the macro - molecular synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide ( CHX ) or actinomycin D ( Act D ) was present for 26 hours in the absence of GM - CSF and FBS , apoptosis was inhibited .
In this study , we retrospectively analyzed the coagulation function in patients with pancreatic carcinoma .
Strong positive expression of mEndostatin was seen in the tumor tissue after injection of Ad - mEndostatin , immunhistochemically ostained by mouse endostatin monoclonal antibody , while the control groups showed only very low expression or absence .
Baseline and pentagastrin - stimulated calcitonin levels were preoperatively determined in all cases .
Combination therapy was more effective , and completely eliminated tumor in 4 of 12 IFN - GM - CSF and 8 of 11 IFN - IL - 2 animals .
When the two groups were compared with respect to poor and good CCC , poor CCC was higher in patients with PDR ( 64 vs . 36 % , respectively , p = 0 . 01 ) .
A reduction and not an increase in tumor glucose availability could be a more appropriate strategy for the induction of energy failure in tumors .
In a second step , these parameters were further analyzed by hierarchical cluster analyses .
Endothelial cell migration was increased by Rab5a depletion but decreased by Rab7a depletion .
The detection of increased abundance of EGF - R or Her - 2 / neu proteins in human tumours can provide additional information on the disease - free survival and overall survival for patients with breast , ovarian , endometrial or cervical cancer .
Treatment of NIH 3T3 cells with the PKC inhibitor staurosporine , the tyrosine kinase inhibitor herbimycin A , and the AA metabolism inhibitor quinacrine induces apoptotic cell death .
Recent studies revealed that p21WAF1 protects cells from apoptosis by arresting them in G1 and further binds to pro - caspase - 3 , preventing its activation and thus , inhibiting the apoptotic cascade .
PTEN mRNA and protein were less frequently expressed in early and advanced gastric carcinomas than that in normal gastric mucosa ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
This result indicates that CREB functions in the signaling pathway between Akt and MMP .
Some responders with congenital neutropenia and Shwachman - Diamond syndrome ( SDS ) have developed myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia ( MDS / AML ) , which raises the question of the role of G - CSF in pathogenesis .
Artemisinin inhibits tumor lymphangiogenesis by suppression of vascular endothelial growth factor C .
Topical and systemic estrogen treatments have shown an increased rate of healing by reducing inflammation , however the underlying mechanisms are little understood .
Angiogenic stimulation was macroscopically detectable , with engulfment of the samples , in 39 % and was evidenced by angiography in 59 % of the samples .
CONCLUSIONS : Low sVAP - 1 levels are associated with poor prognosis in gastric cancer .
RESULTS : Blood vessels initiated growth and elongated from the fat tissue fragments over 15 days .
By contrast , ras - induced tumors were poorly differentiated fibrosarcomas .
ICAM - 3 enhances the migratory and invasive potential of human non - small cell lung cancer cells by inducing MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 via Akt and CREB .
Sixty - eight percent of tumors in this group were vimentin positive and 88 % of all vimentin - positive tumors fell into this category .
In control group , there was no vascular bundle implantation .
The review is focused on the participation of polymorphonuclear granulocytes ( neutrophils ) in development and spreading of a tumor .
The effect of perfluorocarbon - based artificial oxygen carriers on tissue - engineered trachea .
In human endothelial cells , cediranib inhibited VEGF - E - induced phosphorylation of VEGFR - 2 and VEGF - C156S - induced phosphorylation of VEGFR - 3 at concentrations of less than / = 1nmol / L and inhibited activation of downstream signaling molecules .
These data strongly implicate the BR - SMADs as part of a critical developmental pathway in ovaries and testis that , when disrupted , leads to malignant transformation .
Both B and T lymphocytes diversify their antigen receptors through RAG1 / 2 mediated recombination , but B cells undergo two additional processes - - somatic hypermutation ( SHM ) and class - switch recombination ( CSR ) , both initiated by activation - induced cytidine deaminase ( AID ) .
The alpha2beta1 integrin receptor plays a key role in angiogenesis .
Grape seed extract ( GSE ) , a widely used dietary supplement , is known to have antitumor activity .
We also detected strong activation of AKT in allograft tumors specifically AKT2 as the predominant isoform involved .
Almost all patients respond to G - CSF with increased neutrophils , reduced infections , and improved survival .
This remodeling process seems to be mainly flow - mediated .
This has led to the therapeutic concept of prophylactic thyroidectomy in affected family members with the goal of removing the thyroid before the manifestation of carcinoma .
IGF - 1 enhances cell proliferation and survival .
A reduction in alpha - catenin expression and p53 overexpression correlated to lymph node metastases , respectively .
New Zealand white rabbits were given limbal inoculations of a heat - killed suspension of herpes simplex virus ( HSV ) in a lysate of human embryonic kidney cells .
Inhibition of the mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) by rapamycin increases chemosensitivity of CaSki cells to paclitaxel .
This action is not observed with uninfected CEF , and , therefore , appears to require some expression of the viral src gene in the target cells .
Furthermore , the effects of a selective NF - kappaB inhibitor , NEMO - binding domain ( NBD ) peptide , on metastasis in GSAS / N5 - engrafted mice were assessed , and engrafted tongue tumors were immunohistochemically examined .
This study investigated the effects of dietary folate on the development of UC - associated colon cancer in the IL - 2 ( null ) x beta ( 2 ) m ( null ) mice .
There was a significant positive relationship between PAI - 1 levels and N - stage ( p = < 0 . 05 ) , presence of nodal metastases ( p = < 0 . 05 ) , stage grouping ( p = < 0 . 01 ) and extent of disease ( p = < 0 . 05 ) in the total group and the SCC subgroup , but not adenocarcinoma .
One limitation of these approaches , however , may be the failure to normalize myocardial perfusion , due to the concomitant presence or small of resistance vessel disease .
It has also been demonstrated that MTSS1 is involved in the Shh signaling pathway in the developing hair follicle and in basal cell carcinomas of the skin .
In vitro cell proliferation , combination studies and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) secretion analyses were performed on endothelial ( HMVEC - d ) and colorectal cancer ( HT - 29 ) cells exposed for 144 h to metronomic concentrations of SN - 38 , the active metabolite of CPT - 11 , L - OHP and 5 - FU .
RESULTS : The final visual acuity of the study patients , after a median follow - up of 31 months , improved by greater than or = 1 Snellen lines in 8 patients ( 13 % ) , deteriorated in 20 ( 32 % ) , and remained stable in 34 ( 55 % ) .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the effect of osteopontin silencing on the invasion and apoptosis of U251 cells .
Interestingly , crossing of cyclin D1 transgenic mice with E mu L - myc transgenics that express their transgene in both B - and T - cells but predominantly develop T - cell tumours leads in double transgenics exclusively to B - cell neoplasia .
SREBP activation decreased as ECs migration slowed ; ( 2 ) Coincidental with SREBP activation , mRNA expression of its target genes such as low density lipoprotein receptor , HMG - CoA reductase , and fatty acid synthase also increased in migrating ECs population as detected by real - time PCR ; ( 3 ) Migration induced SREBP activation in ECs was inhibited by SREBP - acting protein RNAi and pharmacologically by 25 - hydroxycholesterol ; ( 4 ) Inhibition of SREBP led to decreased ECs migration in various models ; ( 5 ) Cells genetically deficient in SREBP - acting protein , S1P , or S2P , phenotypically exhibited impaired migration ; ( 6 ) SREBP inhibition in ECs suppressed the activity of small GTPase Cdc42 , a key molecule for ECs motility .
Induction of the MKP - 1 protein in the MCF10A - Myc and MDA - MB - 231 breast epithelial cell lines was also seen .
Syndecan - 1 is a cell surface proteoglycan that has been implicated in a number of cellular functions including cell - cell adhesion , cell - matrix anchorage and growth factor presentation for signalling receptors .
PURPOSE : To report on bevacizumab treatment for radiation retinopathy affecting the macula .
BACKGROUND : Recently , the desmoplastic reaction has been implicated as having an important function in epithelial solid tumor biology .
Effects of cyclooxygenase - 2 non - selective and selective inhibitors on proliferation inhibition and apoptosis induction of esophageal squamous carcinoma cells .
Under this condition , the secondary functions of effected cells are likely to be impaired , and a new metabolic equilibrium is established , determined by the level of cross - diffusion and degree of hypoxia .
Also , serum VEGF was significantly higher in patients with PDR than in those without DR .
However , no changes were observed in the presence of netrin - 1 .
OBJECTIVE : Dependence on glycolysis is a hallmark of malignant tumors .
Blockade of PAF - R by WEB - 2170 , a PAF - R antagonist , abolished the CD154 - dependent motility , indicating a role for PAF synthesized after CD154 stimulation in renal carcinoma cell motility .
On the other hand cancer cells overexpress insulin - like growth factors and their receptors which mimic many activities of insulin .
We conclude that stimulation of a putative growth factor signal pathway , associated with ras - induced proliferation , transiently suppresses the induction of transcription factors functionally involved in cell growth and differentiation .
RESULTS : The apoptosis rate of the old donor - derived MSCs group was significantly higher than that of the young donor - derived MSCs group under conditions of ischemia and anoxia ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
hADA3 functions as a coactivator for p53 - mediated transactivation by stabilizing p53 protein .
Dysregulation of the signaling mechanisms of the TGF - beta superfamily proteins is associated with clinical diseases such as cancer , fibrotic diseases , and vascular disorders .
The tumor vascular network is the result of pro - angiogenic and inhibitory factors as well as of the interaction between endothelial cells and extracellular matrix .
Furthermore , we show that p53 is activated in virally infected cells to evoke an apoptotic response and that p53 is critical for antiviral defence of the host .
Identification of a small region of the v - fos gene product that is sufficient for transforming potential and growth - stimulating activity .
Thus , our results indicate that under appropriate conditions rho genes function as oncogenes and may have a role in the regulation of proliferation in fibroblast cells .
These immortally transformed cells ( KMST - 6 ) showed no clonability in soft agar and were not tumorigenic .
M - CSF also induced the nuclear localization of Sp1 , which was blocked by ERK inhibition .
The aim of the present study was to investigate the properties of VEGF expression in human gingival fibroblasts ( HGF ) culture .
VTAs can be divided into two groups : antiangiogenic agents and vascular - disrupting agents ( VDAs ) .
Their correlation with lymph node metastasis and the predictability of lymph node metastases , by combining these factors , were also discussed .
Heating and protease treatment of the stimulants reduced the VEGF enhancing levels in Ve and OMP in vitro .
The grafts are extensively vascularized with capillaries composed of nonfenestrated endothelium ; intercellular junctions are evident at sites of apposition between endothelial cells .
Using a construct containing the VEGF promoter linked to a luciferase reporter , we found that a mutation reducing HIF binding to the VEGF promoter had no significant effect on luciferase production induced by M - CSF stimulation .
All of these results indicate that Akt / mTOR - dependent translation of HIF - 1alpha plays a critical role in the postirradiation up - regulation of intratumoral HIF - 1 activity in response to radiation - induced alterations of glucose and oxygen availability in a solid tumor .
In invasive NM - e - ras - MAC1 cells , where E - cadherin was partially downregulated by specific antisense RNA , syndecan - 1 expression was suppressed .
HBO is useful in chronic nonhealing wounds of the diabetic foot and of the diabetic foot with impending amputation .
Neither the synthesis nor some basic activities of MyoD appeared to be affected by wt SVLT .
To analyze the contribution of VEGF - C to lymph node metastasis , its corresponding gene was stably introduced into HEC1A cells ( HEC1A / VEGF - C ) , which then produced more than 10 times the amount of VEGF - C .
Y705 phosphorylation is conventionally thought to be required for Stat3 signal - dependent activation and seems to play an essential role in some malignancies .
Conditional deletion of Smad1 and Smad5 in somatic cells of male and female gonads leads to metastatic tumor development in mice .
Mast cells were found to be unique among the peritoneal leukocytes by virtue of their capacity to enhance profoundly the proliferation of a variety of tumors in vitro .
On day 21 , all rats received 5 x 10 ( 5 ) hepatoma cells intrasplenically .
To identify the underlying mechanism involved in such growth - factor / serum independent growth of Galpha ( 12 ) QL - transformed NIH3T3 , we carried out a two - dimensional differential proteome analysis of Galpha ( 12 ) QL - transformed NIH3T3 cells and cells expressing vector control .
Nineteen ( 79 % ) putative NK - cell lymphomas expressed perforin , and all 24 cases expressed granzyme B9 and TIA1 .
Relevant differentially expressed genes were validated by either quantitative real - time polymerase chain reaction or immunohistochemistry on tissue microarrays .
Endothelialization was present at anastomotic sites , but other areas were covered with fresh thrombi .
Thus , inhibition of either ERK or Sp1 suppressed M - CSF - induced VEGF at the mRNA and protein level .
The increased energy expended by the host to synthesize substrate , which is utilized by the tumor , is a potential cause of cancer cachexia .
TRAP - activated platelets stimulated a dose - dependent increase in SKOV3 cell invasion .
In addition to direct effects on mammary epithelial cells , including decreased proliferation and induction of apoptosis , CLA may exert its effects indirectly by inhibiting the differentiation of mammary stromal cells to an endothelial cell type .
Liver tissue spaces , investigated with multiple indicator dilution technique in liver perfusion studies , were unchanged at week 3 after tumor induction .
Curcumin induces apoptosis in immortalized NIH 3T3 and malignant cancer cell lines .
These results indicate carbohydrate metabolism is altered in dogs with lymphoma .
Three patients ( 14 % ) regained 2 or more lines of visual acuity .
The knockdown of robo4 abrogated the chemotactic response of endothelial cells to serum but enhanced a chemokinetic response to Slit2 , while robo1 knockdown cells do not display chemotactic response to serum or VEGF .
BACKGROUND : We suggest that surgical extirpation of primary breast cancer among other effects accelerates relapse for some premenopausal node - positive patients .
FOXO3a elicits a pro - apoptotic transcription program and cellular response to human lung carcinogen nicotine - derived nitrosaminoketone ( NNK ) .
When 10 ( 5 ) cells were injected i . v . , median colony value was 55 and 20 in higher expressor vs . lower expressor respectively ( p less than 0 . 005 ) .
These include activated macrophages , sensitized lymphocytes , and adipocytes .
The existence of proteins encoded by the 3 ' region has been postulated on the basis of multiple open reading frames .
Addition of the caspase inhibitor Z - VAD . fmk inhibited caspase 8 and 3 significantly but did not affect caspase 9 .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : In this study all of the major members of the matrix metalloproteinase ( MMP - 1 , MMP - 2 , MMP - 3 , MMP - 7 , MMP - 9 , MMP - 13 , MT1 - MMP and MT2 - MMP ) / tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase ( TIMP - 1 , TIMP - 2 , and TIMP - 3 ) system have been investigated by immunohistochemistry in a series ( n = 90 ) of stage III ( Dukes ' C ) colorectal cancers .
The identification of Erk1 , 2 as triggered signaling in the lesions may be valuable for the development of effective therapy for this disease .
Neuroblastoma and hepatocyte coculture conditioned media alter apoptosis .
We have , therefore , measured the mRNA level of VEGF - B and VEGF - C together with their receptors by RNase protection assay ( RPA ) in 26 normal kidney samples and 45 renal cell cancers .
Adaptive landscapes and emergent phenotypes : why do cancers have high glycolysis ?
CONCLUSIONS : Rab5a and Rab7a regulate VEGFR2 trafficking toward early and late endosomes .
Our data suggest that the lower blood vessel density found in the patients with 1 mm / day distraction rate may be related to disruption of angiogenesis in the soft connective tissue of the gap or to a less optimal mechanical stimulation of cells involved in angiogenesis .
No significant correlation could be detected with regard to TNM - stage , grading or survival .
Among the members of this superfamily there are proteins with a regulatory function , such as ras , and proteins involved in vesicular trafficking , such as the family of rab proteins .
The dominant view is that neutrophils display exclusively antitumor properties .
CONCLUSIONS : We have established a model to study the regulation of angiogenesis by human adipose tissue .
We could imagine that it also plays a role in adjuvant chemotherapy effectiveness since , perhaps not coincidentally , this is most beneficial for premenopausal node - positive patients .
Since Akt phosphorylates Chk1 - Ser ( 280 ) , the effect of Erbb2 on phosphatidyl inositol - 3 - kinase ( PI3K ) / Akt signaling during UV - induced cell cycle arrest was determined .
Each group was also divided into two subgroups according to poor and good CCC .
Knowledge of 14 - 3 - 3zeta and beta - catenin expression and clinical significance in the same tumor tissues is limited .
To investigate the significance of the C - terminal Abl actin - binding domain within Bcr / Abl p190 in the development of leukemia / lymphoma in vivo , mutant p190 DNA constructs were used to generate transgenic mice .
Here we show that transcription of the p53 gene is induced by IFN - alpha / beta , accompanied by an increase in p53 protein level .
Common features of this ECM - assisted tissue remodelling include angiogenesis , recruitment of circulating progenitor cells and constructive remodelling of damaged tissue structures .
Because of this , and the virtual explosion of interest in pomegranate as a medicinal and nutritional product that has followed , this review is accordingly launched .
Adjuvant chemotherapy is recommended after resection in selected high - risk patients with stage II disease and in all patients with stage III disease .
However , the mechanism by which Notch oncoproteins ( generically termed here as N ( ic ) ) induce neoplastic transformation is not known .
Cytotoxic chemotherapy resistance is linked to limited therapeutic options and poor prognosis .
In this study , we have expressed wild - type and mutant forms of VASP in endothelial cells to determine in what aspects of cytoskeletal behavior this protein participates .
SPARC ( secreted protein , acidic , and rich in cysteine ) is a matrix - associated glycoprotein that modulates the adhesion and proliferation of vascular cells .
Compared with values measured at the edge of the ear and in the contralateral ear , leukocyte adhesion was found to be diminished significantly in vessels inside the ear tumor in both mouse models .
The UFO proto - oncogene maps to human chromosome 19q13 . 1 and is transcribed into two 5 . 0 kb and 3 . 2 kb mRNAs in human bone marrow and human tumor cell lines .
The results suggest that somatostatin and somatostatin receptors may play a regulatory role for hemodynamic tumor - host interactions , possibly involving tumor stroma generation , tumor environment , angiogenesis and , particularly , vascular drainage of poorly differentiated neoplasms .
We used neutralizing Abs to show that the IFN - inducible protein - 10 and monokine - induced by IFN - gamma chemokines are pivotal in inducing these effects .
We generated monoclonal antibodies that target FGF - BP protein and used them as a tool to evaluate frequency and pattern of FGF - BP expression during the malignant progression of pancreas and colorectal carcinoma in archival tissue samples .
A key role for the integrin alpha2beta1 in experimental and developmental angiogenesis .
Our laboratory has provided evidence that thrombin activates angiogenesis , a process which is essential in tumor growth and metastasis .
RESULTS : About 43 % ( 126 of 292 ) of known deregulated genes in TFs were associated with cell proliferation , extracellular matrix remodeling , and immune response .
CONCLUSION : Exposure of clonal B lymphocytes from patients with CLL to simvastatin decreases viability significantly by the induction of apoptosis .
These results suggest that overexpression of PLD isozymes may play an important role in neoplastic transformation .
Vascular proliferation and enhanced expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase in human peritoneum exposed to long - term peritoneal dialysis .
Here we provide an overview of the current understanding of the Warburg effect upon tumor cell growth and survival , and discussion on the potential metabolic targets for cancer therapy .
Expression of COX - 2 mRNA and synthesis of PGE ( 2 ) were inhibited by BV .
Recently , considerable attentions have been devoted to the physiological roles of angiopoietin ( Ang ) - 1 and - 2 as regulatory factors of VEGF .
There was a significant correlation ( P = 0 . 022 ) between survivin and bcl - x expression ; survivin and bcl - x tended to correlate with overall survival ( P = 0 . 072 and 0 . 075 , respectively ) , but not with disease - free survival ( P = 0 . 19 and 0 . 18 , respectively ) .
It has been recognized as the cause of adult T - cell leukemia ( ATL ) .
PLGA - heparin microspheres released out bFGF in a more sustained manner with a smaller extent of initial burst than PLGA microspheres , indicating that surface immobilized heparin controlled the release rate of bFGF .
The rapid cleavage of Tie1 is followed by a transcriptional down - regulation in response to shear stress .
However , it remains unknown whether or not allogeneic transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells ( MSC ) derived from fetal membranes ( FM ) , which are generally discarded as medical waste after delivery , has therapeutic potential .
Conversely , inducible over - expression of RASSF1C in breast cancer cells ( MDA - MB231 and T47D ) resulted in a small increase in cell proliferation .
In addition , the endostatin vector treatment completely prevented the formation of pulmonary micrometastases in Lewis lung carcinoma ( P = 0 . 0001 ) .
Furthermore , in support of these findings , we found that sunitinib induced a reduction in the expression of the antiapoptotic molecule Bcl - 2 as well as dephosphorylation of the proapoptotic molecule BAD , which results in the activation of BAD in these cells .
The effects of radiation on neovascularization in a rat model .
RASSF1C down - regulates several pro - apoptotic and tumor suppressor genes and up - regulates several growth promoting genes in breast cancer cells .
Attenuation of the proangiogenic effects by neutralizing VEGF antibodies suggests VEGF play a key role in the acquisition of the angiogenic phenotype in oral cancer cells .
Tumor cells adapt to hypoxia by modulating their phenotype .
Substantial studies have demonstrated that PTEN can inhibit cell proliferation , migration and invasion of many cancer cells .
Transformation by Rous sarcoma virus results in a dramatic increase in the rate at which the transformed cells transport glucose across the cell membrane .
The VEGF system represents a key mediator of tumor - initiated angiogenesis and the first target of antiangiogenesis agents introduced in clinical practice .
In these transformants , mitogen depletion elicited an increase in the Rb level comparable to that in normal C2 cells ; wt SVLT , however , promoted the phosphorylation of a large part of the induced Rb .
The underlying mechanisms were systematically investigated in vitro and in vivo .
High levels of allele loss also were detected for chromosomes 8q ( 4 of 9 ; 44 % ) and 16p ( 5 of 6 ; 83 % ) and may indicate the presence of additional cellular genes whose functional loss is important in the development of HCCs .
Peritoneal NOS activity is increased fivefold in long - term PD patients compared with control subjects .
[ Activation of sterol regulatory element binding protein and its involvement in endothelial cell migration ]
DPD expression did not significantly correlate with the occurrence of lymph node metastasis , nor was it different between primary oral cancer cells and cervical metastases .
The contribution of ischemia to arteriogenesis is still unclear , but arteriogenesis clearly can occur in the absence of any significant ischemia .
Furthermore , retention of CDK4 in these TA - like pituitary cells synergizes with loss of p27 ( Kip1 ) to induce pituitary adenocarcinomas .
PEDF was found to be decreased in diabetics ( mean values : 2080 vs . 5780 ng / ml ; p = 0 . 04 ) compared to controls .
These observations suggest that stem / progenitor cells in the mammary gland may be especially susceptible to oncogenic transformation .
LVI is associated with axillary lymph node metastases ( ALNM ) and a long - term prognostic factor .
Consequently , increased adhesion of cancer cells to endothelial cells was observed by the treatment of carcinostatic agents .
Neoplastic transformation of ciliary body epithelium is associated with loss of opticin expression .
Destruction of an existing vasculature also directly inflicts serious damage to the tumor cell .
From one of the revertants , we recovered a 0 . 2 - kb cDNA , N56 , that suppresses the tumor growth of the transformed 3Y1 cells irrespective of the expression of the E6 and E7 genes .
The p24 protein family have multiple functions in protein transport in the early secretory pathway .
In the present study it was found that incubation of HepG2 cells with a low concentration of 3 - BrPA for a short period ( 150 microM for 30 min ) significantly affected both glycolysis and mitochondrial respiratory functions .
The heightened sensitivity of VHL - deficient cells was not attributed to dissimilar energy requirements or to differences in glucose uptake , but more likely reflects a lesser ability of VHL - deficient cells to handle abnormally processed proteins arising from impaired glycosylation .
Bilateral central lymphadenectomy was performed in all patients in addition to thyroidectomy .
Also , the grafts maintain a constant volume between 3 and 8 weeks , thereby indicating that primary skin fibroblasts do not produce tumors .
The frequency of ITC in bone marrow was significantly associated with the stage of disease by ANOVA ( P < 0 . 01 ) .
Growth through the foveal center still can occur , however , and this can be associated with substantial visual loss .
The MVD and Ki - 67 LI were higher , and the AI was lower in the SCC with VEGF / p53 coexpression than in those without the coexpression .
Tip30 is a tumor suppressor that can inhibit estrogen receptor - mediated transcription in MECs , but its role in MEC proliferation remains unknown .
In addition , comparison of both groups revealed a significantly higher increase in TGF - beta1 , IGF - I , IGFBP - 3 , and hGH in the lengthening group during the distraction period , indicating key regulatory functions in mechanotransduction .
The development of carcinoma was examined in male Wistar rats ( n = 120 ) exposed to N - methyl - N ' - nitro - N - nitrosoguanidine ( MNNG ) in the drinking water ( 83 micrograms / ml ) for 16 weeks .
The aim of this study was to characterize the distribution of hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 in normal and cancerous ovarian tissue and to examine the effects of LL - 37 on ovarian cancer cells .
CONCLUSIONS : LDH5 is overexpressed in NSCLC and could hence serve as an additional marker for malignancy .
The results of this study suggest that a subclinical cumulative dose of 900 cGy is the threshold for impaired tissue revascularization provided that treatment is delivered immediately after implantation over a 48 - hour interval .
Recently , it has been shown that expression of human HOX 2 genes is sequentially activated by RA beginning from Hox 2 . 9 at the 3 ' end of the HOX 2 cluster ( A . Simeone , D . Acampora , L . Arcioni , P . W . Andrews , E . Boncinelli , and F . Mavilio , Nature [ London ] 346 : 763 - 766 , 1990 ) .
Hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell carcinoma ( HLRCC ) is caused by mutations in the Krebs cycle enzyme fumarate hydratase ( FH ) .
The purpose of this study was to investigate the expression and significance of 14 - 3 - 3zeta and beta - catenin in stage I non - small - cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) .
Decrease in c - Myc activity enhances cancer cell sensitivity to vinblastine .
Compared with CSC - low tumors , CSC - high tumors exhibited increased microvessel density and blood perfusion and induced increased mobilization and tumor recruitment of bone marrow - derived endothelial progenitor cells ( EPC ) .
PURPOSE : Recent studies of cancer metastasis have focused on the role of premetastatic gene expression and circulating tumor cells .
Consequently , we examined by immunohistochemistry , using the avidin - biotin - peroxidase method , Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 expression in 56 samples of primary oral squamous cell carcinoma and in 22 matched pairs of primary and metastatic tumors .
There is comparatively less evidence to support the use of other treatment modalities for relief of symptoms in intermittent claudication , but there is considerable interest in therapeutic angiogenesis to promote new vessel formation and enhance collateralisation of the lower limb using recombinant growth factor proteins or gene transfer strategies .
DNA microarray analysis allows for analysis of drug effects on multiple pathways linked to cancer and can suggest corresponding imaging tracers for further analysis as biomarkers of tumor response .
Bee venom induces apoptosis and inhibits expression of cyclooxygenase - 2 mRNA in human lung cancer cell line NCI - H1299 .
Newly formed bone densities were also found to be higher in these 2 groups .
Staining of the normal mammary epithelium , if present , was much lower than observed in tumor cells from the same patient .
Controlling lymph node metastasis is currently a key issue in cancer therapy .
Although some recent reports suggest that microvessel counts in non - small cell lung cancer are related to a poor disease outcome , the results were not conclusive and were not compared with other molecular prognostic markers .
The biological properties of CCN proteins include stimulation of cell proliferation , migration , and adhesion , as well as angiogenesis and tumorigenesis .
Epithelial keratitis , disciform edema , and necrotizing keratitis with neovascularization of the cornea developed in control animals .
Bradycardia was induced in rats by administering the bradycardic drug alinidine ( 3 mg / kg body weight ) twice daily .
Conditioned media obtained from distinct tumour types with unique patterns of metastatic spread redirected fibronectin expression and cluster formation , thereby transforming the metastatic profile .
PTTG - induced galectin - 1 transactivation and expression were mediated by c - Myc , and both inductions were suppressed by c - Myc RNAi cotranfection .
Under similar conditions , both uninfected HUVECs and HUVECs infected with AdCMV . beta gal did not differentiate .
Proc .
The stromal cells in turn produce factors that nurture the tumor .
In pre - B acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ) with t ( 1 ; 19 ) translocation , a fusion protein is created between E2A and a homeobox gene PBX .
Patients with other genetic blistering disorders do not have elevated collagenase or an increased risk of squamous cell carcinoma , despite chronic wounding .
Depletion of polyphenol with polyvinylpyrrolidone abolished the antiangiogenic activity of GSE , suggesting a water - soluble fraction of polyphenol in GSE is responsible for the antiangiogenic activity .
These data suggest that 20 - HETE stimulates superoxide formation by pathways other than apocynin - sensitive NAD ( P ) H oxidase , thereby activating MAPK and then enhancing VEGF synthesis that drives EC proliferation .
Neurotrophin p75 receptor ( p75NTR ) promotes endothelial cell apoptosis and inhibits angiogenesis : implications for diabetes - induced impaired neovascularization in ischemic limb muscles .
Both polyester prostheses ( PF and PS ) have better tissue integration than the PP mesh , as evidenced by the higher amount of connective tissue and lower extent of fibrous encapsulation .
METHOD : The intratumor microvessel density ( IMVD ) , apoptotic index ( AI ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression were detected by immunohistochemistry SABC and terminal uridine deoxynucleotidyl transferase mediated nick end labeling ( TUNEL ) methods in34 LSCC patients .
p63 , a p53 homologue , is a myoepithelial cell marker in the normal mammary gland but p63 - positive neoplastic cells may be found in up to 11 % of invasive breast carcinomas .
Highly metastatic GSAS / N3 and N5 cells showed an enhanced NF - kappaB activity , thus contributing to increased migration , invasion , and a poor prognosis compared with the parent cells .
The aptamer - induced dimerization and inactivation of M2 - PK led to a significant decrease in the PK mass - action ratio as well as ATP : ADP ratio in the target cells .
In this review , we will discuss the current knowledge of MTSS1 ' s role in cancer metastasis , carcinogenesis , and development .
TSP - 2 deficiency dramatically enhanced susceptibility to skin carcinogenesis and resulted in accelerated and increased tumor formation .
Taken together , our results suggest that the induction of de novo lipid synthesis by androgen requires the transcriptional up - regulation of HK2 and PFKFB2 , and phosphorylation of PFKFB2 generated by the PI3K / Akt signalling pathway to supply the source for lipogenesis from glucose in prostate cancer cells .
In vitro migration and invasion were assessed in these cells , and the NF - kappaB activities and expression of NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules were also examined .
Zero to 10 daily fractions of electron - beam radiation ( 300 cGy each ) were delivered to the implant in the right groin , while the implant in the left groin served as a nonirradiated internal control .
DNA damage induces a novel p53 - survivin signaling pathway regulating cell cycle and apoptosis in acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells .
VPF / VEGF induced dermal microvascular EC expression of mRNAs encoding the alphav and beta3 integrin subunits resulting in increased levels of the alphavbeta3 heterodimer at the cell surface , and VPF / VEGF also induced mRNA encoding osteopontin ( OPN ) , an alphavbeta3 ligand .
Interleukin - 2 administration was followed by a significant increase in total lymphocytes , CD4 + , CD8 + , CD16 + 56 + ( NK ) cells , IL - 6 , IL - 12 , and CRP ( from P < 0 . 04 to P < 0 . 000 ) but no change in IL - 10 and TGFbeta1 during clinical benefit .
The heat shock proteins ( HSPs ) centered and NF - kappaB centered networks were also enriched in the result , which may imply the key function of inflaming on metastasis .
In transfected MDCK canine kidney epithelial cells , 5T4 over - expression also results in increased motility , but disruption of cell - cell contacts , either by culturing cells in low calcium medium or by addition of HGF / SF , is needed .
LPA downregulates TIMP3 , which may have targets other than metalloproteinases .
A kinetics analysis showed that the depolarization of mitochondrial membrane potential and the release of mitochondrial cytochrome c occurred as early as 30 min after treatment with betulin .
Angiostatin was first discovered as a plasminogen fragment with antitumor / antiangiogenic property .
Furthermore , elevated expression of VEGFR - 1 facilitates the establishment of hematogenous metastases in gastric cancer .
METHODS : The expression of Merlin protein in 45 cases of NSCLC and adjacent tissue of NSCLC and normal lung tissue was checked by immunohistochemistry .
VEGF is a potent activator of angiogenesis as it promotes endothelial cell proliferation and new blood vessel formation .
The portion of the LTR responsible for trans activation was mapped by deletions to lie within the U3 region .
Immune complex kinase assays in the simian virus 40 system were performed by incubation of immunoprecipitates containing tumor antigens with [ gamma - 32P ] ATP , followed by analysis of any phosphoacceptor proteins .
Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) transforms B lymphocytes through the expression of the latent viral proteins EBNA and latent membrane protein ( LMP ) .
Nevertheless , for both viruses the leukemic blasts retained full factor dependence for growth .
CONCLUSIONS : The data suggest that PI3K / Akt - NF - kappaB axis may promote PC bone metastasis in part by regulating transcription and activation of the BMP - 2 - Smad signaling cascade in osteotropic PC cells .
Obesity is a common disorder and related diseases such as diabetes , atherosclerosis , hypertension , cardiovascular disease and cancer are a major cause of mortality and morbidity in Western - type societies .
Finally , CD47 signaling may suppress angiogenesis because 4N1K significantly inhibited endothelial cell migration and tube formation in vitro .
These results strongly suggest that Dss1 is a TPA - inducible gene that may play an important role in the early stages of skin carcinogenesis .
sVAP - 1 is also an independent predictive marker for lymph node metastasis .
PURPOSE : Antiangiogenic therapy is considered as an effective strategy for controlling the growth and metastasis of tumors .
At the commencement of the study , 29 patients were in chronic phase ( CP ) , 25 in an accelerated phase ( AP ) , and 31 in the blast crisis ( BC ) .
We previously reported the cloning and characterization of a HBV insert from a Chinese HCC .
Nevertheless , patients who achieved complete remission ( CR ) had a significantly lower median PE level compared to those who did not .
Ovarian cancers overexpress the antimicrobial protein hCAP - 18 and its derivative LL - 37 increases ovarian cancer cell proliferation and invasion .
All treatments resulted in significant changes in vascular volume with time , while only DMBA treatments alone resulted in significant changes in vascular permeability with time .
Perfusion thresholds were estimated at tumor blood flow values of 69 . 0 + / - 0 . 1 ml / 100 g / min ( estimate + / - standard error ) and of 69 + / - 7 . 1 ml / 100 g / min for the beginning of the decline in regional ATP and glucose content , respectively .
METHODS : A clinicopathologic data review was performed in 60 patients with PTMC treated with total thyroidectomies involving neck dissections .
The cell cycle progression and sub - G1 population were analysed by flow cytometry .
SWAP - 70 is a phosphatidylinositol trisphosphate ( PtdIns ( 3 , 4 , 5 ) P ( 3 ) ) binding protein , which acts in F - actin rearrangement .
Notch signaling regulates intestinal development , homeostasis and tumorigenesis , but its precise downstream mechanism remains largely unknown .
In this review , this evidence is surveyed together with evidence from analogous situations , such as tumour cell migration and invasiveness .
Forced expression of SEMA3B , but not SEMA3F , inhibited viability of ovarian cancer cells .
Our purpose was to examine human colon cancers for inactivation of two candidate metastasis suppressor genes , nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 , either by mutation or by loss of gene transcription .
Metabolic thresholds were derived at tumor glucose utilization values of 70 . 6 + / - 8 . 3 mumol / 100 g / min for reduced protein synthesis , of 55 . 0 + / - 0 . 2 mumol / 100 g / min for the decrease in glucose content , and 34 . 7 + / - 4 . 7 mumol / 100 g / min for decline in ATP content .
In transgenic embryos , RPE cells proliferated in the anterior part of the eye and near the optic nerve .
Furthermore , we determined the ability of U - 995 to inhibiting tumor cell growth and metastasis .
These results indicated that Hes genes cooperatively regulate intestinal development and homeostasis and raised the possibility that Hes1 is a promising target to induce the differentiation of tumor cells .
CNV size did not affect visual outcomes .
Notch proteins are plasma membrane - spanning receptors that mediate important cell fate decisions such as differentiation , proliferation , and apoptosis .
Loss of p21 completely abolished the cell cycle arrest function of p53R172P and accelerated tumor onset in Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) mice .
Melissoidesin G , a diterpenoid purified from Isodon melissoides , induces leukemic - cell apoptosis through induction of redox imbalance and exhibits synergy with other anticancer agents .
Here , we provide an overview of the many roles of RUNX1 in hematopoietic self - renewal and differentiation and summarize the information that is currently available on the many mechanisms of RUNX1 deregulation in human leukemia .
Thrombospondin - 1 ( TSP - 1 ) is a potent angiogenesis inhibitor , and down - regulation of TSP - 1 has been suggested to alter tumor growth by modulating angiogenesis in a variety of tumor types .
CONCLUSIONS : P18 is a novel and potent antiangiogenic biotherapeutic agent that has potential to be developed for the treatment of prostate and renal cancer .
The studies reported here were designed to help elucidate PAI - 1 ' s contribution to the invasive and migratory phenotype .
Metastasis from lung adenocarcinoma can occur swiftly to multiple organs within months of diagnosis .
Metastatic carcinoma of unknown primary origin is a perplexing but common problem , accounting for up to 10 % to 15 % of all solid tumors at presentation .
Angiogenesis is a critical process in solid tumor growth and metastasis .
Inhibition of PG synthesis was without effect upon desensitization , demonstrating that the effect was not agonist - induced .
PURPOSE : We investigated the global gene expression in a large panel of pancreatic endocrine tumors ( PETs ) aimed at identifying new potential targets for therapy and biomarkers to predict patient outcome .
The two parameters were more frequently observed in the SCC with VEGF / p53 coexpression than in those without the coexpression .
In addition , the positivity rate of EphA2 was significantly higher in primary lesions with lymph node metastasis than in those without metastasis ( p = 0 . 0014 ) .
Mechanical strain induced CBP - mediated acetylation of histones 3 and 4 at the SRF - binding site and within the CCN1 gene coding region .
One of these mutants ( CU2 ) increases the rate of glucose transport only slightly and does not render the infected cells fully anchorage independent or tumorigenic ( although other transformation parameters are fully induced ) .
These alterations of Bcl - 2 family proteins were critical for apoptosis induced by the combination in cancer cells .
To better understand the activity of cediranib against VEGFR - 3 and its associated signaling events compared with its activity against VEGFR - 2 , we used the receptor - specific ligands VEGF - E and VEGF - C156S .
Anarchic angiogenesis with large , moniliform , tortuous vessels was seen in severe dysplasias and carcinomas .
OBJECTIVE : The expansion of adipose tissue is linked to the development of its vasculature .
Taken together , our data indicate that in VHL disease , therapy directed at inhibition of constitutively expressed VEGF induction of angiogenesis by VHL tumors may constitute an effective medical treatment .
In intestinal metaplasia , dysplasia , and GC of the intestinal and atypical subtypes , C / EBPbeta was over - expressed ( p < 0 . 0001 , for the association with histological type ) .
Papilloma formation was observed in both the DMBA - TPA - and DMBA - Cum - OOH - exposed animals , whereas skin carcinomas were found only in the DMBA - Cum - OOH - treated mice .
RESULTS : The diagnostic sensitivity of this new immunocytochemical approach reached 100 % for the eight malignant mesotheliomas investigated .
RESULTS : As regards the association of patients ' prognosis with EGFR staining and Ki - 67 index , a significant increase was observed in patients who died or had residual disease compared with patients who were alive without disease .
CONCLUSION : This angiogenesis assay based on human fat tissue uses three - dimensionally intact human tissue .
Thus , ATX appears to augment cellular characteristics necessary for tumor aggressiveness .
DAPT delivery from the hydrogels also did not lead to any adverse side effects , in contrast to systemic introduction of DAPT .
Bcl - 2 protected SH - EP cells from death during nutritional deprivation by activating energetically advantageous oxidative phosphorylation .
Mice that received either IR or TEMF had significantly fewer lung metastatic sites and slower tumor growth than did untreated mice .
Recently serum S - 100beta has shown promise as a tumour marker in melanoma ; however , its use as a prognostic marker in the advanced stage needs to be confirmed .
Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) is strongly associated with the development of HCC in people chronically infected with the virus , but the mechanism of viral involvement remains unclear .
CONCLUSIONS : Thus , expression of the TrkA receptor itself inhibits p75 mediated apoptosis in NB cells .
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES : Chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) is the most common leukemia in the western world .
Fibroblast growth factor - 2 ( FGF - 2 ) has been reported to play multiple roles in different biological processes during development of the central nervous system ( CNS ) .
Diverse cell signaling events modulated by perlecan .
They also antagonised the effects of both thrombin and SFLLR on MMP - 2 activation .
This assay allows exploration of angiogenesis in fat tissue .
Vascular development is dependent on various growth factors and certain modifiers critical for providing arterial or venous identity , interaction with the surrounding stroma and tissues , hierarchic network formation , and recruitment of pericytes .
Along these same lines , TTF - 1 staining might prove useful in localizing the tumor origin of adenocarcinomas encountered outside of the lung .
RSVT - 2 and RSVT2 / C cell lines were hyperproliferative and hyperinvasive when compared with the parental HTR8 cell line .
In this study , we aimed to investigate the role of aberrations in the APC and beta - catenin genes in the pathogenesis of CRC in the Kashmir valley , and to correlate it with various clinicopathological variables .
KISS1 and matrix metalloproteinase - 9 ( MMP - 9 ) may play important roles as metastasis suppressor and metastasis promoter genes , respectively , in a variety of malignancies .
A clone of NIH3T3 transformant ( H - 3 ) , obtained by transfecting genomic DNA of a human colon carcinoma cell line , contains human K - ras oncogene and yields metastatic pulmonary nodules after intravenous injection of the cells into nude mice .
The present study provides direct evidence on the role of cell morphology in EC migration , and will help us to understand the mechanisms of EC migration during angiogenesis and wound healing .
We concluded that RAF265 is highly efficacious in this xenograft model of human melanoma and decreases glucose metabolism as measured by DNA microarray analysis , cell culture assays , and small animal FDG PET scans as early as 1 day after treatment .
Low concentrations of SN - 38 , but not 5 - FU and L - OHP , preferentially inhibited endothelial cell proliferation .
Protein kinase C levels in several transformed cell lines were subject to down modulation in a similar growth state - dependent manner .
Vasodilator - stimulated phosphoprotein ( VASP ) is highly expressed in vascular endothelial cells , where it has been implicated in cellular reorganization during angiogenesis , as well as in endothelial retraction and changes in vessel permeability .
METHODS : We studied VEGF expression of 85 CML patients ( median age 50 years , range 16 - 75 years ) .
The interaction of VEGF and its receptors at gene and protein levels in neuroblastoma remains widely unknown .
Analysis of VLB cytotoxicity demonstrated a 3 - fold increase in VLB sensitivity in LoVo - mycANS cells .
Our data suggest that KISS1 and MMP - 9 may serve as potential prognostic and therapeutic markers in lung cancer .
Understanding molecular mechanisms regulating angiogenesis may lead to novel therapies for ischemic disorders .
The molecular mechanisms regulating the gene expression under hypoxic conditions could increase the therapeutic window of tumor - specific delivery systems .
Netrin - 1 up - regulation in inflammatory bowel diseases is required for colorectal cancer progression .
In CX3CR1 - deficient mice , MCs accumulated subretinally with age and albino background and after laser impact preceding retinal degeneration .
Eight founder and progeny mice of 5 different lines were monitored for leukemogenesis .
Immunodetection was performed with a specific anti - bFGF mouse monoclonal antibody that was found to react with recombinant human bFGF in Western blot analysis , and to specifically neutralize the mitogenic activity of bFGF on bovine vascular endothelial cells .
Members of the src and ras oncogene families supplant the epidermal growth factor requirement of BALB / MK - 2 keratinocytes and induce distinct alterations in their terminal differentiation program .
However , PC12 cells do not precisely reflect the pathogenesis of malignant cells .
In these conditions , the rates of oxygen uptake , the CO2 evolution and the changes in the redox states of cytochromes indicate that glucose is preferred by Ehrlich ascites tumour cells as energy substrate .
Activation - induced cytidine deaminase in antibody diversification and chromosome translocation .
Induction of IL - 8 was UV - B dose dependent and blocked by cyclohexamide , indicating that de novo protein synthesis is required for its expression .
The relationship between TS and DPD expression and clinicopathological data was analyzed .
Typically , proliferation and chemotaxis of endothelial cells is driven by growth factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) .
In addition , 15d - PGJ ( 2 ) suppressed tumour necrosis factor - alpha - induced - COX - 2 expression , confirming the reciprocal correlation between COX - 2 and PPARgamma .
Similarly to other members of this family , Id - 1 is involved in the repression of cell differentiation and activation of cell growth .
Undoubtedly , blood vessels growth regulation is a vital aspect in health and disease .
We examined the expression of nm23 - H1 gene product in surgically resected 46 pairs of primary lung cancers and metastatic lymph nodes by immunohistochemistry .
The later expression of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 in fibroblasts suggests a role in extracellular matrix remodeling .
We now report that a nearby residue , Thr - 495 , also appears to be phosphorylated .
CONCLUSION : The transfection of LMP1 can increase the expression of MMP - 9 in CNE1 cells .
Tip30 ( - / - ) mammary glands transplanted into wild - type mammary fat pads also display mammary trees with extensive ductal hyperplasia .
This collection of reviews at the front - edge of scientific knowledge focuses on host - tumor cell interactions , the disastrous consequences they can produce and approaches the ways to break up these cellular conspiracies , to leave the tumor cells unattended and vulnerable .
In contrast , tube formation was significantly reduced by SMI496 , a beta1 I - like domain inhibitor and by function - blocking anti - alpha2beta1 but not - alpha1beta1 antibodies .
Moreover , renal carcinoma cell lines also released the soluble form of CD154 into the supernatant .
Its Hsp90 inhibition results in multiple anti - tumor - specific effects , such as degradation of Hsp90 - client proteins involved in cell growth , survival , and specific transformation , inhibition of cancer cell growth , delay of cell cycle progression , induction of morphological and functional changes , and apoptosis .
Glucose deprivation enhanced death receptor - triggered formation of death - inducing signaling complex and early processing of procaspase - 8 .
In addition , TNFalpha treatment alone led to increased malignant transformation of mouse embryo fibroblasts , which could be partially suppressed by antioxidants .
Our data establish a novel role for SHP - 2 phosphatase in the dopamine - mediated regulation of VEGFR - 2 phosphorylation .
Regulation of tumor angiogenesis by thrombospondin - 1 .
Overexpression of these proteins is independent of the transcriptional upregulation of their genes , and occurs only in highly malignant breast cancer cells .
On day 41 , rats were killed and tumor nodules were counted .
U - 995 is composed of two single peptides with molecular mass of 10 and 14 kDa , respectively .
Here , we show that the downregulation of Brk1 results in abnormal actin stress fiber formation and vinculin distribution and loss of Arp2 / 3 and Wave proteins at the cellular protrusions .
Surprisingly , despite the expression of KSHV latent genes in the vast majority of tumor cells , specifically targeting only the few vGPCR - expressing cells in established tumors resulted in tumor regression .
METHODS : Thirty - two male wistar rats randomly divided into four groups .
HCMV immediate - early proteins were clearly shown to be responsible for elevating p53 levels in infected fibroblasts ; expression of HCMV immediate - early region 1 and 2 proteins resulted in elevation of p53 levels in transfected human fibroblasts .
The 5T4 antigen is defined by a monoclonal antibody ( MAb ) specific for human trophoblast .
The reduction in collagenolytic activity was observed in viable cells as well as in conditioned medium .
The aim of this study was to compare the incidence of BRCA1 promoter region methylation in tumours in which loss of BRCA1 has been shown to play a role in pathogenesis ( breast and ovarian carcinomas ) with the incidence in tumours in which BRCA1 is unlikely to play a role in pathogenesis .
We conclude that prefabrication of a fat flap is possible and may have extensive application in various areas of plastic surgery .
CONCLUSIONS : We have shown that patients with PDR have a lower coronary collateral score than patients without DR .
Fas and FasL proteins were increased approximately twofold in the RM - 9 - IL12 tumors compared with the RM - 9 control tumors as determined by Western blot and immunohistochemical analyses ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Several members were detected in insulinoma cell lines and rat islets and expression levels positively correlated with insulin abundance , particularly for p24delta1 and p24beta1 .
CONCLUSION : The data suggest that both h - MVD and VEGF immunoreactivity may be useful predictors for the progression of a subset of OSCC associated mostly with betel use .
The present study compares the radiomodification by 2 - DG in monolayer cultures and spheroids of a human glioma cell line ( BMG - 1 ) to gain insight into the effects in solid tumors .
One week later , IGF - 1 - transfected SMCs had increased myocardial IGF - 1 and VEGF levels , increased Bcl2 expression , limited cell apoptosis , and enhanced vessel formation in the myocardial scar compared with the two control groups ( P less than 0 . 05 for all groups ) .
To test this hypothesis , the frequency of metastasis to the lung as a function of allergic pulmonary inflammation was assessed following the i . v . injection of B16 - F10 melanoma cells in mice .
Acetylation of histone and non - histone proteins , induction of apoptotic - related proteins and de - phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase were confirmed in treated mice .
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS : Adipose tissue samples from visceral ( VAT ) and subcutaneous ( SAT ) sites , obtained from 36 obese patients ( mean BMI 46 . 5 kg / m ( 2 ) ) during bariatric surgery , were layered on chick chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) .
Thus , antiapoptotic mechanisms have to be operative in neuroblastoma cells that antagonize the proapoptotic effects of N - myc .
The prognostic value of PE was also evaluated by dividing MDS / AML patients into high and low PE groups using the median PE level of normal controls as the cut - off .
There was also a statistically significant difference regarding fibrosis between groups 1 and 4 .
Matrix metalloproteinase / tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinase phenotype identifies poor prognosis colorectal cancers .
The decreased expression of SEMA3B , SEMA3F , and plexin - A3 was confirmed in stage 3 ovarian tumors .
Recently , we reported candidate target genes of Evi - 1 shared in HSCs and leukemic cells using gene expression profiling analysis .
Inoculation of these cells in athymic mice decreases mouse spleen natural killer ( NK ) cell activity .
We conclude that GR - mediated MAPK inactivation contributes to cell survival and that the potential transcriptional targets of this inhibition can be identified from large scale gene array analysis .
Mouse p10 , an alternative spliced form of p15INK4b , inhibits cell cycle progression and malignant transformation .
Endothelial cell migration was attenuated by treatment of cells with GM6001 , a non - specific inhibitor of MMPs , or by a selective anti - MMP2 antibody .
Targeting a tumor - specific laminin domain critical for human carcinogenesis .
CONCLUSIONS : This study has identified that the MMP / TIMP profile is an independent indicator of poor prognosis in colorectal cancer .
The serum level of CEA was reduced from 172 . 7 ng / ml to 8 . 1 ng / ml after TS - 1 treatment .
In this report , we analyzed the expression of Plexin C1 using immunohistochemistry on sections of primary and matched metastatic lesions from 19 subjects and in a large melanoma tumor microarray .
Here , we investigated whether angiogenesis and tumor metastasis are dependent on hypoxia conditioning - induced TB4 expression in B16F10 melanoma cells .
Tumor angiogenesis has been related to the initiation as well as progression toward more aggressive behavior of human tumors .
Jun N terminal kinase ( JNK1 ) and p38 kinase are activated by a variety of stress stimuli .
When BB - 94 , a matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor , was added to the culture medium of Ras - expressing cells , it caused a cell aggregation phenotype similar to that caused by TEL expression .
These results indicate that the interaction of tumor cells and endothelial cells in orderly tumor angiomorphogenesis is highly dependent on the action of cell adhesion molecules mediating the adhesion of cancer cells to endothelial cells , inhibition of which remarkably retards tumor growth and angiogenesis .
However , no published data are available concerning the biological and clinical significance of COUP - TFII expression in colorectal cancer .
Whereas the ligands were increased in stages III and IV , the receptors were upregulated in stage III only .
Proteolytic activity is required for the turnover of the extracellular matrix during wound healing .
In addition , TEL inhibited the invasiveness of Ras - transformed cells in vitro and in vivo .
Nrf2 heterodimerizes with small Maf protein to strongly activate transcription through the Maf recognition element ( MARE ) and Keap1 is an inhibitory regulator of Nrf2 .
Patients with tumors demonstrating concurrent methylation of more than half of their genes demonstrated significantly poorer survival and earlier recurrence .
Human cytomegalovirus elevates levels of the cellular protein p53 in infected fibroblasts .
The PCR products were then subject to XhoI digestion and to DNA sequencing analysis .
This strategy may be of significant value in laying the foundation for a more explicit anti - tumor angiogenesis therapy .
Control RM - 9 cells and RM - 9 cells stably transfected with IL - 12 gene ( RM - 9 - IL12 ) were inoculated subcutaneously in 4 - to 6 - week - old male C57BL / J6 mice .
CONCLUSIONS : ITCs circulate even in early stages of disease .
In contrast , expression of kinase - dead PIM - 2 mutant ( PIM - 2KD ) led to a rapid decline of survival in Ba / F3 cells transformed by FLT3 - ITD but not by other oncogenic PTKs tested .
The adenovirus type 5 55 - kDa E1B protein ( E1B - 55kDa ) cooperates with E1A gene products to induce cell transformation .
VEGF165 also mediated the binding of a soluble NRP1 dimer to cells expressing KDR only , confirming the formation of such complexes .
The grafts were implanted in the abdominal aortic position of 24 dogs autologously .
Interestingly , we find that the deletion of miR - BHRF1 - 2 reduced the expression level of miR - BHRF1 - 3 and possibly that of miR - BHRF1 - 1 , demonstrating that the expression of one miRNA can potentiate the expression of other miRNAs located in the same cluster .
Effects of 4 - alkylmorpholine N - oxides on ATP - producing processes in Ehrlich ascites and L1210 leukaemia cells .
The median overall survival was 27 weeks .
In contrast , MMP - 9 expression was higher in stage III - IV NSCLC cases compared to stage I - II tumors ( p < 0 . 05 ) and higher in NSCLC cases with metastasis than those without metastasis ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
Together , these in vitro and in vivo studies are consistent with the concept that Ad vectors may provide a useful strategy for efficient local delivery of VEGF165 in the treatment of ischemic diseases .
The nature of these substrates was confirmed by proteolysis techniques .
The hypothesis that modifications of activity and / or expression of nitric oxide synthase ( NOS ) isozymes might play a role in these modifications , via enhanced local production of nitric oxide , was tested in this study .
Moreover , in the presence of glucose , the malate - citrate cycle did not appear to play an important role in the glutaminolytic process .
We also demonstrated that Evi - 1 represses Smad - induced transcriptional activation by recruiting CtBP as a corepressor .
In this study , we investigated the effects of spironolactone on the prevention of corneal allograft rejection in a MHC class I / II mismatch rat corneal transplant model .
Acad .
Incidence of BRAF p . Val600Glu and p . Val600Lys mutations in a consecutive series of 183 metastatic melanoma patients from a high incidence region .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is a vascular growth factor which induces angiogenesis ( the development of new blood vessels ) , vascular permeability , and inflammation .
To examine this hypothesis , we used NCI - H1299 non - small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) cell line ( p53 and PTEN null cell ) and constructed an ICAM - 3 - over - expressing stable transfectant , which exhibited increased cell migration and invasion .
Apoptotic index ( AI ) was calculated , based on the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase - mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate biotin nick end labeling , to evaluate apoptosis .
After cytocentrifugation the specimens were stained in accordance with the alkaline phosphatase anti - alkaline phosphatase ( APAAP ) method .
Similar methods applied to human ovarian and colon tumors confirmed endosialin expression by pericytes .
In this article we have focused on a role of IL - 6 as a prognostic factor in several malignancies such as colorectal cancer , breast cancer , gastric cancer and pancreatic cancer .
This pathway has been implicated to play a role in the pathogenesis of cancer and in embryonic blood vessel development .
Thus , the NO metabolic pathway in endothelial cells could be one of the main contributing factors for angiogenesis .
These data indicate that dietary folate supplementation at 4x the basal dietary requirement significantly suppresses UC - associated colorectal carcinogenesis in the IL - 2 ( null ) x beta ( 2 ) m ( null ) mice .
Low transcript expression alone ( P = 0 . 003 ) or combined with methylation ( P = 0 . 019 ) was associated with poor disease - specific survival ( n = 205 ) .
We therefore hypothesized that ANG II could be a mediator between homeostatic changes within the vascular perfusion bed and growth factor - driven angiogenesis .
The aim of the present study was to clarify how expression of p53 protein participates in angiogenesis , and whether the coexpression of VEGF and p53 protein has a significance for angiogenesis and the clinicopathological features in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) .
Q - RT - PCR was a useful method to detect the mRNA levels of nm23 gene in buccal carcinoma .
The overall mutation rate of the MCR of the APC gene among 86 CRC cases was 12 . 8 per cent ( 11 of 86 ) .
In the trans - splenic hepatic metastasis model using nude mice , the augmentation of cancer metastasis was observed by the treatment of carcinostatic agents .
Genotypes of 155 patients with cervical cancer and 160 healthy control subjects were determined using polymerase chain reaction - based restriction fragment length polymorphism ( PCR - RFLP ) .
Effect of transplanted mesenchymal stem cells from rats of different ages on the improvement of heart function after acute myocardial infarction .
Additional mechanistic studies further suggested that the ability of circulating cancer cells to extravasate to surrounding lung tissues was linked to the activation of the vascular endothelium via one or more Galpha ( i ) - coupled receptors .
Oncogenic mechanisms of Evi - 1 protein .
Electronmicroscopically , thrombus formation in the primary site prevented tumor invasion and metastasis formation .
Previous studies have shown that activation of the signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 ( STAT5 ) plays an essential role in leukemogenesis mediated through constitutive activated protein tyrosine kinases ( PTK ) .
IMPLICATIONS : These findings also contrast with the demonstration of nm23 metastasis suppressor activity in murine melanoma and with the correlation of loss of nm23 expression in breast cancer with poor prognosis .
However , co - culture of these cancer cells with stromal or osteoblastic cells induced RANKL mRNA expression and decreased OPG mRNA expression .
Pretreatment of cells with caffeine significantly reduces adenosine - induced VEGF promoter activity and VEGF and IL - 8 expression .
Systematic proteomic analysis of human hepotacellular carcinoma cells reveals molecular pathways and networks involved in metastasis .
Metastatic lesions were confirmed by immunohistochemistry .
Therefore , angiogenesis depends on sustained ERK activity regulated by the ligation state of both a growth factor receptor and integrin alphavbeta3 .
Reduced oncogenicity of p190 Bcr / Abl F - actin - binding domain mutants .
M - CSF signals through the MAPK / ERK pathway via Sp1 to induce VEGF production and induces angiogenesis in vivo .
This pathway will continue to be a focus of investigation , particularly with respect to targeted experimental chemotherapeutics .
Immunostaining for endothelial nitric oxide synthase , vascular endothelial growth factor , and CD34 ( markers of vasoactivity and neoangiogenesis ) was also performed .
Additionally , glutathione depletion and extracellular signal - regulated kinase ( ERK ) inactivation was observed in EPOX - treated cells .
Such evidence indicates that MTSS1 as a multiple functional molecular player and has an important role in development , carcinogenesis and metastasis .
In contrast , the growth of tumors requires constant vascular growth and remodeling in order for solid tumors to grow beyond 1 - 2 mm ( 3 ) in size .
The procedure is based on the use of a central skeleton of uteroglobin , a small and very soluble covalently linked homodimeric protein that is very resistant to proteolytic enzymes and to pH variations .
Selective inhibition of nuclear factor - kappaB by nuclear factor - kappaB essential modulator - binding domain peptide suppresses the metastasis of highly metastatic oral squamous cell carcinoma .
They also serve as important intracellular signaling molecules that amplify the synovial inflammatory - proliferative response .
CONCLUSIONS : Insulin increases VEGF mRNA and secreted protein levels in RPE cells through enhanced transcription of the VEGF gene .
Further investigation using inhibition or genetic deletion of Erbb2 in vitro revealed reduced Cdc25a levels and increased S - phase arrest in UV - irradiated cells lacking Erbb2 activity .
Molecular requirements for epithelial - mesenchymal transition during tumor progression .
The process of angiogenesis is also thought to occur in response to ischaemic conditions , which lie at the core of cardiovascular disease states such as coronary artery disease and congestive heart failure .
Cell proliferation in each sample was assessed by using the Ki - 67 proliferation marker .
Administration of exogenous polyamines prevented ACA - induced apoptosis represented by a reduction in the number of apoptotic bodies and also caused reduction in the induced caspase - 3 - like protease activity at 8 h .
RESULTS : Abnormal E - cadherin and beta - catenin staining correlated with depth of tumour invasion in differentiated - type tumours .
Gross evaluation included shrinkage and stiffness .
In this study we separated weakly acidic phenolic components from other neutral , acidic and basic components of tobacco smoke condensate ( TSC ) and observed that phenolic fraction of TSC significantly increased the number of colonies of promotion - sensitive JB6 Cl41 cells that showed anchorage - independent growth on soft agar in response to BPDE ( an ultimate carcinogen produced by metabolic activation of the PAH benzo [ a ] pyrene ) .
Moreover , the overexpression of IGF1 - R in these cells was associated with IGF1 - R - induced activation of Akt and up - regulation of the antiapoptotic protein Bcl - x ( L ) .
The cells invasion was demonstrated by transwell assay .
These mice were then treated with ganciclovir to specifically target only the vGPCR - expressing cells .
But little is known about the characteristics of young donor - derived MSCs transplanted to old patients with AMI .
The amount of conjugated amine group onto the microspheres was 1 . 93 + / - 0 . 01 nmol / mg - microspheres , while the amount of heparin was 95 . 8 pmol / mg - microspheres .
Thyrotropin receptor : a role for thyroid tumourigenesis ?
In this regard , inhibitors of these pathways have been shown to be effective antitumoral agents .
CONCLUSION : The optimal approach to the treatment of colorectal cancer depends on several considerations , including patient - specific factors .
In summary , these novel studies identify and characterize a marked glucose - modulated activation response of the type II hexokinase gene to hypoxic conditions within highly glycolytic hepatoma cells , a property that may help assure that such cells exhibit a growth and survival advantage over their parental cells of origin .
Glutathione supplementation reversed the inhibitory effects of EPOX on ERK , which increases the phosphorylation of Mcl - 1 at T ( 163 . ) Overexpression of mitogen - activated protein / ERK kinase ( MEK ) partially reversed the effect of EPOX on Mcl - 1 dephosphorylation , ubiquitination , and degradation , further implicating ERK in the regulation of Mcl - 1 stability .
Our results showed that MTX administration increased the MDA and MPO activities and collagen content and decreased GSH levels in all tissues , while these alterations were reversed in L - Car - treated group .
WIT003 , as well as pure 20 - HETE , stimulated EC proliferation by approximately 40 % .
Solid tumors must establish a blood supply in order to proliferate and grow .
We further show that Stat3 is phosphorylated at S727 in 65 % of malignant prostate tissues ( n = 20 ) relative to 25 % of normal prostate tissues ( n = 4 ) .
The expression of NP - 1 , NP - 2 , and plexin - A1 was not altered in human ovarian surface epithelial and ovarian cancer cells .
Manipulating angiomiRs in the settings of pathological vascularization represents a new therapeutic approach .
p53 appears to be a nuclear transcription factor that plays a role in the control of cell proliferation , apoptosis , and the maintenance of genetic stability .
RESULTS : SPARC expression was mainly in the stromal cells surrounding the colon cancer , and was significant difference in those tissues with the lymph node metastasis and differentiation degree of tumor .
Moreover , we show that subjecting transfected hepatoma cells to hypoxic conditions activates the type II hexokinase promoter almost 3 - fold , a value that approaches 7 - fold in the presence of glucose .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , a recently identified growth factor with significant angiogenic properties , may be a major tumor angiogenesis regulator .
Immunotargeting using an anti - IGF - IR neutralizing antibody on human fetal lung explants demonstrated a significant blockade of IGF - IR signaling .
Protein expression profile of primary human squamous cell lung carcinomas indicative of the incidence of metastases .
It is therefore highly likely that these alterations are an important component in tumor resistance to therapy .
Immunohistochemistry scores for matrix metalloproteinase - 9 expression were significantly elevated compared to controls in scar endothelial cells and fibroblasts from 2 until 12 and 20 weeks , respectively .
These disturbed functions are associated with suppression of signaling mechanisms implicated in EC survival and angiogenesis .
Expression of VEGF had a significantly positive correlation with IMVD ( r = 0 . 51 , P less than 0 . 01 ) .
Endosialin / TEM 1 is a cell membrane protein that is expressed in blood vessels during embryogenesis and tumorigenesis but not in normal mature vessels .
Importantly , the addition of a neutralizing VEGF antibody abolished M - CSF - induced blood vessel formation .
In spleen , tyrosinase , TRP - 1 and SV40 Tag were expressed and tyrosinase was enzymatically active .
KISS1 hypermethylation was identified in bladder cancer , providing a potential mechanistic explanation ( epigenetic silencing ) for the observed loss of KISS1 in uroepithelial malignancies .
It was found that wild - type ( wt ) SVLT strongly inhibited the terminal differentiation of mouse C2 myoblasts , but this arrest occurred only after the synthesis of myogenin , an initial step in biochemical differentiation .
Most primary human melanomas exhibit loss of expression of the CDKN2A locus in addition to activation of the canonical mitogen - activated protein kinase signaling pathway .
Arterial pressure and cardiac output were unchanged .
Intracellular glutathione levels were determined with the use of monochlorobimane , a glutathione - specific probe .
There was negative correction between KISS1 and MMP - 9 protein expression ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
[ Interleukin - 18 and new drugs . Protective effect against tumor growth and infections ] .
RESULTS : Endometrial glands in the proliferative and early secretory phase expressed both DCC and netrin - 1 , but glands in the late - secretory phase tended to silence DCC expression .
Restriction fragment length polymorphism studies demonstrated that the loss of one copy of portions of chromosome 17 occurred in 10 ( 53 % ) of the 19 patients .
The results of LDH5 expression were correlated to clinico - pathological data as well as to patient ' s survival .
Inactivation of IGF - IR resulted in a loss of endothelial cells , accompanied by dramatic changes in fetal lung explant morphology .
Fibroblast growth factor 2 promotes microvessel formation from mouse embryonic aorta .
Proto - oncogene N - myc promoter is down regulated by the Wilms ' tumor suppressor gene WT1 .
Supernatant from cultures of Ve - and OMP - stimulated HGF strongly induced VPE .
There was also a significant correlation between VEGF - C and both of its receptors flt - 4 ( P = 0 . 006 ) and KDR ( P = 0 . 03 ) but no association between VEGF - B and its receptor flt - 1 ( P = 0 . 23 ) .
We also show that mouse p10 is able to inhibit foci formation and anchorage - independent growth in wild - type mouse embryonic fibroblasts , and that these antitransforming properties of mouse p10 are also p53 - dependent .
The decline in circulating endothelial cells and their precursors suggests that this combination may be working by inhibiting angiogenesis but should be validated in a larger patient sample .
( 1999 , Proc . Natl . Acad . Sci . USA 2645 - 2650 ) to inhibit endothelial cell proliferation and angiogenesis , both in vivo and in vitro , and to inhibit metastasis of a wide variety of tumors in vivo .
In contrast , the response of cells to long - term treatment with PDBu was significantly different depending upon the initial growth state of the cells .
We have previously described a group of genes that is rapidly up - regulated in these cells following dexamethasone ( Dex ) treatment .
Protruding and expansive ulcerating carcinomas developed at 36 weeks and had a microvascular pattern similar to that of human adenocarcinoma .
The positive staining of nm23 - H1 gene product in primary cancers and metastatic lymph nodes were observed in 56 . 5 and 67 . 4 % , respectively .
Thalidomide at the concentrations of 0 . 01 microM and 10 microM inhibited VEGF secretion into supernatants , decreased the number of formed capillary tubes and increased cell adhesion to collagen .
Bovine capillary endothelial cells are also stimulated to actively migrate when exposed to EGF in vitro .
The fact that viral or other adjunctive vectors were not required further suggests that secreted gene products may have potential therapeutic utility even when the number of successfully transfected cells remains low .
METHODS : The expression of DCC and netrin - 1 in normal endometrial glands and in cancer cell lines was examined by RT - PCR and immunohistochemistry .
It was thought that potent antiangiogenic effect of cRGD - HL was probably due to the interference of alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) - mediated interaction , resulting in the enhanced antitumoral activity against SCC7 tumor .
Aflibercept ( AVE0005 ) : an alternative strategy for inhibiting tumour angiogenesis by vascular endothelial growth factors .
The result showed that the multilevel of FPC could all apparently induce Bel - 7402 apoptosis .
Vascular grade was not related to histology , grade , proliferation index ( Ki67 ) , or EGFR or p53 expression .
Aberrant angiogenesis leads to a variety of diseases , such as ischemia and cancer .
Perfusion and permeability parameters of the implanted tumours were evaluated by using two contrast media ( B22956 / 1 and Gd - DTPA37 - albumin ) to establish response to treatment with two different antiangiogenic drugs ( tamoxifen and SU6668 ) .
We found that the severity of vascular abnormalities correlated positively with the severity of histologic epithelial lesions ; this finding is consistent with colposcopic results .
Transformation of mammary epithelial cells ( MECs ) from the normal to the neoplastic stage requires the dysregulation of tumor suppressor genes and proto - oncogenes .
Levels of uPA , urokinase - plasminogen activator receptor ( uPAR ) and plasminogen activator inhibitor - 1 ( PAI - 1 ) were measured semiquantitatively in paraffin sections of tumours from 147 patients with NSCLC .
The relationship between this unique type of EBV and NPC has yet to be established .
The apparent first - order rate constant for GSH decay increased progressively for L1210 cells expressing a range of GPX activities from approximately 5 % to 100 % , demonstrating that peroxide detoxification is strictly dependent on enzyme content .
Human T - cell lymphoma virus ( HTLV ) - 1 was the first human retrovirus to be discovered .
OPN promoted EC migration in vitro ; and VPF / VEGF induction of alphavbeta3 was accompanied by increased EC migration toward OPN .
A panel of antibodies was used for immunohistochemistry : CD34 / Ki - 67 , carbonic anhydrase IX , hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha ( HIF - 1alpha ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
Identification of the putative transforming protein of the human T - cell leukemia viruses HTLV - I and HTLV - II .
Our results showed that HeLa cells demonstrated the highest sensitivity to paclitaxel , whereas CaSki cells showed the lowest .
To assay for the possible presence of transforming genes which were not active in a focus formation assay , two of the epithelial lines were analysed further by co - transfection with a dominant selectable marker , followed by selection and inoculation into nude mice .
NOS activities were measured by the L - citrulline assay in peritoneal biopsies from seven control subjects , eight uremic patients immediately before the onset of PD , and 13 uremic patients on short - term ( less than 18 mo , n = 6 ) or long - term ( greater than 18 mo , n = 7 ) PD .
One such receptor , VEGFR - 2 / KDR , plays a key role in VEGF - induced angiogenesis .
The CCAAT / enhancer - binding protein beta ( C / EBPbeta ) transcription factor has been associated with several cancer models .
We have constructed a recombinant adenovirus that expresses murine endostatin that is biologically active both in vitro , as determined in endothelial cell proliferation assays , and in vivo , by suppression of angiogenesis induced by vascular endothelial growth factor 165 .
Carcinogenesis and transcriptional regulation through Maf recognition elements .
Recent studies have demonstrated that tumor cells treated with antibodies specific for beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin ( beta ( 2 ) M ) or major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) class I molecules undergo apoptosis in vitro and in vivo ( mouse models ) .
In all patients , a major and consistent induction of p53 target genes was seen .
Tumor size was measured every 3 days .
METHODS : We used ribonuclease protection assays to analyze human colon tumors for the level of nm23 - H1 ( 43 samples ) and nm23 - H2 ( 41 samples ) transcript ( mRNA ) expression and the presence of mutations that could inactivate potential suppressor function .
Thus , 5T4 molecules can deliver signals through both the extracellular and intracellular domains , and the resultant effects are consistent with a role for 5T4 molecules in invasion processes .
Breast tissue taken at varying postoperative times ( n = 92 ) or during surgery ( controls , n = 17 ) , was used to investigate the temporal and spatial activity of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 during human wound healing .
With the recent ability to clone capillary endothelial cells and to carry them in long - term culture , it has been possible to further delineate the mechanism of capillary growth .
Only one eye received a second PDT treatment due to choroidal neovascularization .
Primary human keratinocytes lacking G45 ( DeltaG45 ) showed alterations of basal receptor organization , impaired matrix deposition , and increased migration .
To determine whether lipofection in other organs could be enhanced by increasing the degree of vascularization , we used a transgenic mouse model with tissue - specific angiogenesis in liver .
Several cell types in a tissue secrete IL - 8 .
Treatment with vehicle or with 10 and 50 mg / kg of DATS resulted in a reduction in tumor volume and weight .
Cediranib ( RECENTIN ; AZD2171 ) is an inhibitor of VEGF signaling that has been shown in experimental models to prevent VEGF - A - induced angiogenesis and primary tumor growth , yet the effects of cediranib on VEGF receptor ( VEGFR ) - 3 - mediated endothelial cell function and lymphangiogenesis are unknown .
Sequence analysis revealed that this gene had 95 % homology with the LMP sequence of the B95 - 8 strain .
