This may explain why some patients remain without symptoms or signs of ischemia .
In cervical cancer cells , paclitaxel induced apoptosis through an intrinsic pathway with prior G2 / M arrest .
Dopamine regulates phosphorylation of VEGF receptor 2 by engaging Src - homology - 2 - domain - containing protein tyrosine phosphatase 2 .
After MNNG administration , rats were investigated by endoscopic observation , visualization of microvascular structure , and estimation of lectin binding sites .
2G7 did not inhibit MDA - 231 primary tumor or metastases formation , nor did it stimulate NK cell - mediated cytotoxicity in beige NK - deficient nude mice .
OPN promoted EC migration in vitro ; and VPF / VEGF induction of alphavbeta3 was accompanied by increased EC migration toward OPN .
Conversely , inducible over - expression of RASSF1C in breast cancer cells ( MDA - MB231 and T47D ) resulted in a small increase in cell proliferation .
Notably , AglRhz inhibits insulin - like growth factor ( IGF ) - 1 - induced AP - 1 activity and cell transformation in JB6 Cl41 cells .
FA induced GR - mediated transcription in Ca3 / 7 cells transfected with a luciferase reporter gene under the control of glucocorticoid response element ( GRE ) , but DMI alone did not affect GR - mediated transcription .
In contrast , tube formation was significantly reduced by SMI496 , a beta1 I - like domain inhibitor and by function - blocking anti - alpha2beta1 but not - alpha1beta1 antibodies .
Clinical studies have shown elevated serum IL - 6 concentrations in patients with endometrial cancer , non - small cell lung carcinoma , colorectal cancer , renal cell carcinoma , breast and ovarian cancer .
The results were comparative to those of Northern blotting of the same cases .
Overexpression of DLC1 but not DLC1 - Ser88Ala mutant promotes cancerous properties of breast cancer cells .
c - myc is a major target that transduces Myb ' s proliferative signal , as shown by the ability of a c - Myc - estrogen receptor fusion protein alone to also reverse growth arrest in this system .
Interestingly , a survey of a clinical breast cancer surgical database showed that the incidence of asthma was higher among patients with lung metastases .
We also showed ICAM - 3 - induced cell migration and invasion in NCI - H460 NSCLC cells ( wild - type p53 and PTEN cell ) through the same signaling pathway .
The 5T4 antigen is a transmembrane glycoprotein with a 310 amino acid extracellular domain and a 44 amino acid cytoplasmic domain .
One such receptor , VEGFR - 2 / KDR , plays a key role in VEGF - induced angiogenesis .
However , treating EU - 6 with anti - survivin antisense resensitized these cells to doxorubicin , resulting in apoptosis .
The mean final visual acuity in eyes with higher refractive error at baseline ( greater than - 17 diopters ) was significantly better ( P = 0 . 014 ) than that in eyes with lower refractive error ( - 6 to - 10 diopters ) .
For this reason , formalin - fixed , paraffin - embedded specimens from 130 patients with squamous cell lung carcinomas were analyzed by immunohistochemistry .
The aim of this study was to study the effects of magnolol on CGTH W - 2 thyroid carcinoma cells .
RESULTS : Histology demonstrated C - cell hyperplasia in five patients ( aged 4 - 13 years ) , unilateral medullary microcarcinoma in six ( aged 9 - 17 years ) and a bilateral medullary microcarcinoma in three cases ( aged 17 - 24 years ) .
Relationship of p53 and Helicobacter pylori to clinicopathological features of human remnant stomach cancer after gastric surgery for primary gastric cancer .
A similar trend was noted in the SCCVII tumor model .
CONCLUSION : These results suggest that mutant p53 expression is associated with angiogenesis and distant metastasis in esophageal SCC , and that the coexpression of p53 and VEGF may play an important role in angiogenesis , and have important clinical significance .
Binding studies with SPARC and SPARC peptides indicate specific and saturable interaction with smooth muscle cells that involves the C - terminal Ca2 + - binding region of the protein .
The nm23 - H1 mRNA expression levels in CBM with lymph nodes metastases were lower than those in CBM without metastases ( P < 0 . 05 ) , while no significance of nm23 - H2 mRNA expression levels was found between CBM with and CBM without metastasis ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
Cells transformed by Rous sarcoma virus release transforming growth factors .
The cell type specific glycosylation protects Sp1 and HIF1alpha from proteosome degradation and plays an important and novel role in the regulation of VEGF in DCN transfected MCE cells .
Angiogenic activity of the aqueous humor was quantified by measuring its effect on the migration of capillary endothelial cells .
In this study , we aimed to investigate the role of aberrations in the APC and beta - catenin genes in the pathogenesis of CRC in the Kashmir valley , and to correlate it with various clinicopathological variables .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is a major regulator of angiogenesis that binds to tyrosine kinase receptors Flt - 1 and KDR .
Cox proportional hazards multivariate analysis ( MVA ) was used to determine the relation of MDM2 to the endpoints .
Altogether , these results suggest a new approach to promote angiogenesis by controlling Notch signaling , and may provide new options to treat patients with diseases that diminish angiogenic responsiveness .
Conditioned media obtained from distinct tumour types with unique patterns of metastatic spread redirected fibronectin expression and cluster formation , thereby transforming the metastatic profile .
Glucose deprivation enhanced death receptor - triggered formation of death - inducing signaling complex and early processing of procaspase - 8 .
Terminal transferase dUTP end - labeling assay and TEM studies of anti - IGF - IR - treated lungs demonstrated numerous apoptotic mesenchymal cells .
Intracellular glutathione levels were determined with the use of monochlorobimane , a glutathione - specific probe .
If generalizable to additional cell lines and human disease , this observation may partially explain the adverse prognosis associated with thrombocytosis in ovarian cancer .
Calculations of the sources of energy for adenosine triphosphate synthesis indicated that on the average about one - third of the respiratory adenosine triphosphate is generated by electron flow originating from cytosolic NADH via the malate - aspartate shuttle .
The metastatic potentials of several human prostate cancer xenograft models , LAPC - 4 , LAPC - 9 , PC3 and CWR22Rv - 1 were compared .
Its control of growth factor signaling usually involves interactions with the heparan sulfate chains covalently coupled to the protein core ' s N - terminus .
Twenty - one percent of clinically unaffected family members had elevated levels of bFGF , and 13 % of patients with EBS had elevated levels of bFGF .
Inhibition of c - Jun amino - terminal kinase ( JNK ) blocked type III collagen expression in LRP - 1 - deficient MEFs , suggesting regulation of JNK activity as a mechanism by which LRP - 1 controls mRNA expression .
Thus , the differential regulation of hTERT and VEGF in p63 - positive breast carcinomas may contribute to the clinically more aggressive behavior of these neoplasms .
The genetics of transformation by SV 40 .
Glycolysis was affected by pharmacological regulation of c - Myc and HIF - 1alpha .
RESULTS : The overall incidence of BRAF mutation ( 89 / 183 , 49 % ) was very similar to other large studies of Caucasian populations .
In contrast , abnormal staining was frequently found even in intramucosal carcinoma of undifferentiated - type tumours , suggesting an apparent difference in the onset of E - cadherin - catenin complex abnormality between the two cancer types .
( 3 ) .
Interleukin - 1 receptor antagonist inhibits ischaemic and excitotoxic neuronal damage in the rat .
These findings indicated that DATS inhibits tumor growth in an allograft animal model .
There was a significant correlation between D2 - 40 + LVI and age , t - stage , nodal status , grading and hormonreceptor - status .
Fibroblast growth factor 2 promotes microvessel formation from mouse embryonic aorta .
The neural stem cell fate determinant TLX plays a pivotal role in neurogenesis in the adult brain by maintaining neural stem cells .
One theoretical possibility is that mast cells may prepare the matrix , perhaps by slow release of heparin , so that capillary sprouts can more easily move through it toward their angiogenic target .
As in prior studies , there were significant vascular volume differences between DMBA and DMBA + radiation groups of tumor - bearing cheek pouches .
PURPOSE : We prepared tumor endothelium targeted cRGD - modified heparin derivative ( cRGD - HL ) by coupling heparin - lithocholic acid ( HL ) with cRGDyK , and evaluated inhibition effects of cRGD - HL on angiogenesis and tumor growth .
RESULTS : Angiostatin inhibited endothelial cell proliferation by 50 - 60 % .
Mutant mice lacking both cyclin - dependent kinase ( CDK ) inhibitors p18 ( Ink4c ) and p27 ( Kip1 ) develop a tumor spectrum reminiscent of human multiple endocrine neoplasia ( MEN ) syndromes .
PTEN mRNA and protein were less frequently expressed in early and advanced gastric carcinomas than that in normal gastric mucosa ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Single - nucleotide polymorphisms of the FAS - 1377G / A , FAS - 670A / G , and FASL - 844T / C genes may alter transcriptional activity of these genes .
Loss of opticin expression by this tissue is associated with and could contribute towards neoplastic transformation .
The role of the pro - inflammatory peptide , LL - 37 , and its pro - form , human cationic antimicrobial protein 18 ( hCAP - 18 ) , in cancer development and progression is poorly understood .
Circulating endothelial cells and their precursors declined and remained low in responders , whereas plasma vascular endothelial growth factor trended to decline in responding patients but increase in nonresponders .
These results suggest that products of ethanol metabolism are important factors in the development of ethanol - induced changes in endothelial cell responsiveness to VEGF .
Upon retroviral transduction of the mouse c - myc gene , Rat 6 cells showed mildly altered morphology and formed microcolonies in soft agar ; furthermore , they could be transformed by BP and MNNG to form large colonies in agar ( Hsiao et al . ( 1992 ) Mol . Carcinogenesis , 5 , 140 - 154 ) .
A selective marker of normal and neoplastic mesothelial cells in serous effusions .
GDP and AGE receptors : mechanisms of peritoneal damage .
Daily i . p . injections of HAH - cortisol into mice bearing s . c . sponge implants retarded vascularization of the sponge , and injections directly into the sponge abolished vascularization for as long as the injections were continued .
The permeability of plasma membranes for K + increases 2 . 75 fold , while the passive flux of Na + diminishes .
RESULTS : Vandetanib treatment had no effect on tumor cell clonogenic cell survival in vitro but doses > or = 10 nM significantly reduced endothelial cell migration .
The chemokine receptor CXCR4 is associated with the biological behavior of cancer , but few studies have addressed the expression and function of CXCR4 in human gastric cancer and its impact on disease prognosis .
To study tumor related angiogenesis a vascular window model was used to monitor tumor vascularity .
These results indicated that Crk plays a critical role in Rac1 - induced membrane ruffling and Rap1 - mediated nascent focal complex stabilization contributing to ephrin - B1 - induced human aortic endothelial cells migration .
There was no effect on overall protein biosynthesis or ER stress .
Angiogenesis in the caprine caruncles in non - pregnant and pregnant normal and swainsonine - treated does .
These results indicate that Ets - 1 is induced in ECs after denudation through activation of p38 .
METHODS : Immunohistochemical staining of E - cadherin and alpha - and beta - catenin was performed using specimens from 143 patients with early gastric cancer .
Serum and urine levels of interleukin - 8 in patients with non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma .
In concordance with its higher affinity for tumor Hsp90 , in vivo PU24FCl accumulates in tumors while being rapidly cleared from normal tissue .
A DNA fragment containing Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) terminal fragment sequence was obtained from a genomic library of nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( NPC ) .
In experimental breast cancer , estradiol increased IL - 8 whereas the anti - estrogen tamoxifen inhibited the secretion of IL - 8 both in vitro and extracellularly in vivo in tumors of nude mice .
We identify here hADA3 , human homologue of the yeast transcriptional coactivator yADA3 , as a novel E6 - interacting protein and a target of E6 - induced degradation .
Tail vein injection of N - ( 1 - ( 2 , 3 - dioleoyloxy ) propyl ) - N , N , N - trimethylammonium chloride ( DOTAP ) / cholesterol lipoplexes resulted in increased lipoplex entrapment in hypervascularized liver but did not boost luciferase expression , suggesting that lipoplex delivery is not a sufficient condition for efficient organ lipofection .
Instead , regulation occurred at the mRNA level .
Differential regulation of in vivo angiogenesis by angiotensin II receptors .
Presence of 2 - DG ( 5 mM ) for 2 - 4 h inhibited the glucose usage and lactate production by 70 % in spheroids , while a 35 % reduction was observed in monolayer cells .
Likewise , in diabetics without proliferation , angiogenic activity was also blocked by antibodies to PEDF .
RESULTS : The apoptosis rate of the old donor - derived MSCs group was significantly higher than that of the young donor - derived MSCs group under conditions of ischemia and anoxia ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
An important role of proprotein convertases in tumorigenic processes has been suggested by various studies .
In addition to having a direct effect on tumor cells , vitamins such as alpha - tocopheryl succinate and beta - carotene enhance the effect of other agents that induce differentiation in tumor cells .
Strikingly , Tip30 deletion promotes proliferation of primary MECs and results in rapid immortalization of MECs in vitro relative to wild - type cells .
CONCLUSION : In conclusion , we strongly suggest that docetaxel and ATRA combination is a good candidate for this challenging era of daily oncologic practice .
Taken together , these data suggest that signal - controlled activation of SRF , MRTF - A , and CBP provides a novel connection between mechanical stimuli and angiogenic gene expression .
mRNA expression levels of angiogenesis stimulators and inhibitors were determined by quantitative RT - PCR .
Furthermore , in support of these findings , we found that sunitinib induced a reduction in the expression of the antiapoptotic molecule Bcl - 2 as well as dephosphorylation of the proapoptotic molecule BAD , which results in the activation of BAD in these cells .
Twenty - one patients underwent resection of the remnant stomach for RSC and were divided into two groups : the RSCB group consisted of 11 patients who underwent distal gastrectomy for benign disease and the RSCM group consisted of 10 patients who underwent gastrectomy for primary gastric cancer .
Angiogenesis depends on growth factors and vascular cell adhesion events .
A positive correlation between blood vessel volume and bone volume density was found in the younger new - bone area but not in the oldest new - bone area .
Cells of the highly metastatic lung - colonizing clone MTF7 . T35 . 3 , derived from the 13762NF cell line , were treated for 3 days with 0 . 1 , 1 , or 10 microM all - trans - RA , harvested , and seeded on [ 3H ] proline - labeled extracellular matrix deposited by cultured rat lung endothelial cells or on a film of purified [ 3H ] proline - labeled type IV collagen .
These changes are associated with intimal proliferation and vessel narrowing , and thereby may contribute to clinical outcomes associated with pulmonary hypertension .
CONCLUSION : The majority ( 81 % ) of breast carcinomas show survivin expression which correlates with bcl - x , another antiapoptotic marker , and both markers tend to correlate with prognosis .
Whereas agents seem promising in the test tube , clinical trials often fail due to unfavorable pharmacokinetics , poor delivery , low local concentrations , and limited accumulation in the target cell .
Bovine papillomavirus E7 transformation function correlates with cellular p600 protein binding .
Thus , in 5T4 - transfected CL - S1 murine mammary cells , 5T4 expression is associated with dendritic morphology , accompanied by abrogation of actin / cadherin - containing contacts and increased motility .
Target FVs are tracked by a joy - stick controlled laser aiming beam until an intravenously - injected high - concentration ICG dye bolus is observed to enter the target vessel , at which time the laser is fired .
Platelet activation occurs in the tumor microenvironment and may influence local invasion and metastasis .
Different antiangiogenic therapeutics have been developed to improve tumor control through vascular - targeting agents ( VTA ) .
Expression of two type II - like tumor hexokinase RNA transcripts in cancer cell lines .
We investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying NRP1 - mediated angiogenesis by analyzing the association of NRP1 and KDR .
[ Ambiguity role of neutrophils in oncogenesis ]
An understanding of the relative contribution of various pathways in the development of tumor vasculature is critical for developing effective and selective therapeutic approaches .
Protection from experimental ocular herpetic keratitis by a heat - killed virus vaccine .
Endosialin / TEM 1 / CD248 is a pericyte marker of embryonic and tumor neovascularization .
Platelet - derived endothelial cell growth - factor ( PD - ECGF ) is similar to the pyrimidine enzyme thymidine phosphorylase ( TP ) .
Leukemic K562 , U937 and HL60 cells expressed Glut - 1 transporter protein .
Gangliocytic paraganglioma ( GPG ) with local lymph node metastasis was found in the pancreas of a 74 - yr - old female who presented with diarrhea , steatorrhea , vomiting , nausea , and abdominal pain .
An intracellular complex containing NRP1 and KDR was immunoprecipitated from EC by anti - NRP1 antibodies only in the presence of VEGF165 .
This effect is mediated , at least in part , by a decrease in TTF - 1 activity , since transient or stable expression of RhoA QL results in a reduction in the activity of the wild - type Tg promoter as well as an artificial promoter the activation of which depends exclusively on TTF - 1 .
It has been suggested that the expression of this protein may be of prognostic significance in gastric , colorectal , and bladder carcinomas .
In addition , cisplatin markedly reduced MMP2 activity in both conditioned media and cell lysates , increased p38 MAPK and JNK phosphorylation , but did not affect ERK phosphorylation .
The transplantation of old donor - derived MSCs attenuated apoptosis of cardiomyocytes in the peri - infarct region compared with the control group and the effect was elevated in young donor - derived MSCs ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
The high - mobility group A2 gene ( HMGA2 ) is one of the most frequently amplified genes in human cancers .
Overexpression of SEMA3B and SEMA3F reduced focal adhesion kinase phosphorylation and matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and matrix metalloproteinase - 9 expression in ovarian cancer cells .
We therefore set out to determine whether the few cells that express vGPCR in established tumors represent an appropriate therapeutic target for the treatment of patients with preexisting Kaposi ' s sarcoma .
Using c - FLIP anti - sense oligonucleotides to down - regulate c - FLIP we sensitized DU145 cells to CH - 11 - induced apoptosis .
However , the frequency of the p . Val600Lys mutation was higher than in most other studies and comprised almost one - third of all BRAF mutations in our cohort ( 27 / 89 , 30 % ) .
Several Notch genes have clearly been shown to be proto - oncogenes in mammalian cells .
Multiple myeloma , an incurable plasma cell malignancy , is characterized by altered cellular metabolism and resistance to apoptosis .
The positive staining of nm23 - H1 gene product in primary cancers and metastatic lymph nodes were observed in 56 . 5 and 67 . 4 % , respectively .
In 3 days , 1 week , 2 weeks , 3 weeks and 4 weeks after surgery , the MVD of test group was significantly higher than that of control group .
Pharmacological inhibition of the proteasome prevents the degradation of Hck correlating with an increase in the phosphotyrosine levels within the cells .
Therapy was equally effective in this immunosuppressive setting .
PTEN promoter hypermethylation is a major epigenetic silencing mechanism leading to activation of angiogenesis in tumors .
The baseline visual acuity was similar in the various study groups .
Treatment with vehicle or with 10 and 50 mg / kg of DATS resulted in a reduction in tumor volume and weight .
To grow , invade and metastasize , a treacherous society between cancer and host cells must be formed , and this association provides novel and effective clinical targets for cancer control and prevention .
These results suggest that the combined action of 3 - BrPA on succinate dehydrogenase and on glycolysis , inhibiting steps downstream of the phosphorylation of glucose , play an important role in HepG2 cell death .
Insulin concentrations were significantly higher ( P less than 0 . 001 ) at baseline and at the 5 - , 45 - , 60 - , and 90 - minute time periods of the glucose tolerance test in dogs with lymphoma .
Treatment with cyclopamine significantly attenuated vascular formation by a factor of 2 . 5 ( P less than 0 . 001 ) and altered vascular morphology .
We will demonstrate here that the level of the natural ocular anti - angiogenic agent PEDF is inversely associated with proliferative retinopathy .
Vitamins regulate gene expression and induce differentiation and growth inhibition in cancer cells .
Sixty - eight percent of tumors in this group were vimentin positive and 88 % of all vimentin - positive tumors fell into this category .
Each consists of repetitive cycles of interaction with adjacent extracellular matrix components by mediating cellular adhesion , matrix dissolution , and cellular motility to achieve metastasis of cancer cells or neovascularization of tumors .
HCMV immediate - early proteins were clearly shown to be responsible for elevating p53 levels in infected fibroblasts ; expression of HCMV immediate - early region 1 and 2 proteins resulted in elevation of p53 levels in transfected human fibroblasts .
The role of p53 in pigmentation , tanning and melanoma .
When the two groups were compared with respect to poor and good CCC , poor CCC was higher in patients with PDR ( 64 vs . 36 % , respectively , p = 0 . 01 ) .
Thrombospondin is a potent inhibitor of angiogenesis and might therefore be important in controlling tumour growth .
Interestingly , significant associations were found between CYR61 expression versus tumor grade , pathology , gender , and age at diagnosis .
The difference in metastatic potential correlated with the endogenous production levels of lymphangiogenic growth factor VEGF - C and the presence of tumor lymphatics .
Patients whose tumors were CD40 - negative showed a significantly better N stage , overall stage at presentation and survival than those patients with CD40 - positive patients .
In human gliomas and other cancer cell lines , the accumulation of HIF - 1alpha protein under aerobic conditions requires the metabolism of glucose to pyruvate that prevents the aerobic degradation of HIF - 1alpha protein , activates HIF - 1 DNA binding activity , and enhances the expression of several HIF - 1 - activated genes including erythropoietin , vascular endothelial growth factor , glucose transporter 3 , and aldolase A .
We also found an increase of tumor growth and lung metastasis count in TB4 - Tg mice as compared to wildtype mice .
Moreover , we observed an increase in apoptosis of latent gene - expressing cells after the pharmacologic deletion of the vGPCR - expressing cells .
Interestingly , neovascularization of the implants irradiated with 10 fractions ( 3000 cGy ) was not significantly decreased compared with irradiation with three fractions ( 900 cGy ) .
Sunitinib induces apoptosis in pheochromocytoma tumor cells by inhibiting VEGFR2 / Akt / mTOR / S6K1 pathways through modulation of Bcl - 2 and BAD .
In these cells , SDF - 1alpha - induced migration was observed and was blocked by AMD3100 , a specific inhibitor of CXCR4 .
CONCLUSION : The low expression or absence of stromal SPARC was an independent prognostic factor for poor prognosis of colon cancer .
The angiogenic switch during tumorigenesis is thought to be induced by a change in the balance of pro - angiogenic and anti - angiogenic factors .
rho genes have been found in both lower and higher eucaryotes .
Finally , genetic ablation of Brk1 results in dramatic defects in embryo compaction and development , suggesting an essential role for this protein in actin dynamics .
METHODOLOGY / PRINCIPAL FINDINGS : Here , we propose a novel HDAC inhibitor , N - Hydroxy - 4 - ( 4 - phenylbutyryl - amino ) benzamide ( HTPB ) , as a potential chemotherapeutic drug for solid tumors .
The aims of the present study were to compare , in vitro and in vivo , the antiangiogenic and antitumor activities of metronomic irinotecan ( CPT - 11 ) , oxaliplatin ( L - OHP ) and 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) in colorectal cancer and to investigate the metronomic combination of these drugs .
In addition suppression of WT1 expression by WT1 anti - sense oligonucleotide inhibits proliferation of leukemia cells , suggesting that WT1 is important for their proliferation .
As a result of paracrine signal transmission , the effects of Hedgehog signaling most profoundly influence the stromal cells that constitute the tumor microenvironment .
Here , we demonstrate that D2 dopamine receptor ( D2DR ) colocalizes with VEGFR - 2 at the cell surface .
Increased MP activity has been correlated with the metastatic potential of many cancers , including breast cancer .
PURPOSE : To describe visual acuity and angiographic outcomes of juxtafoveal choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) treated with photodynamic therapy and verteporfin ( PDT ) .
In contrast , the implants that were irradiated three times ( single fractions at 0 , 24 , and 48 hours after implantation ) demonstrated significantly diminished ( greater than 25 percent , p less than 0 . 05 ) neovascularization beyond day 7 , whereas implants irradiated only at 48 hours after implantation did not .
This study determines the relationship between preoperative serum sVAP - 1 levels and clinicopathological features and prognosis in gastric cancer .
The present studies examine whether lymphocyte stimulation via cells engineered to secrete GM - CSF or IL - 2 decreases hepatic tumor growth , and whether stimulation of both macrophages and lymphocytes is more effective than either individually .
The merits of vascular targeting for gynecologic malignancies .
Scanning electron microscopy of vascular casts in experimental ocular vasoproliferation .
Furthermore , transient transfection studies with NIH3T3 cells indicated that the expression of activated Galpha ( 12 ) readily increased the expression of SET protein by 24 h .
The tissue response to this biologic mesh is discussed in the context of recent reports on clinical hernia repair .
Hyperbaric oxygenation ( HBO ) may be a useful adjuvant to wound care .
Transfection with hTERT alone , led to the immortalization of two out of three cultures of bone marrow - derived ECs ( BMECs ) .
A synthetic tetracycline , doxycycline , inhibits migration of human MDA - MB - 435 breast adenocarcinoma cells through a reconstituted basement membrane ( Matrigel ) , an assay used as an in vitro surrogate for the in vivo process of tumor invasion through basement membranes .
BACKGROUND : Abnormal hemostasis in cancer patients has previously been described , however the correlation between the plasma fibrinogen level and cancer metastasis and prognosis has not been reported in a large - scale clinical study .
Recently , the role of AQPs in human carcinogenesis has become an area of great interest .
Regulation of the resident chromosomal copy of c - myc by c - Myb is involved in myeloid leukemogenesis .
The genetic basis of increased glycolytic activity observed in cancer cells is likely to be the result of complex interactions of multiple regulatory pathways .
The MVD and Ki - 67 LI were significantly higher ( p less than 0 . 01 and p less than 0 . 001 ) , and the AI was significantly lower ( p less than 0 . 001 ) in the SCC with p53 protein expression than in the SCC without it .
[ Autologous bone marrow stem cell or peripheral blood endothelial progenitor cell therapy in patients with peripheral limb ischaemia ]
The activity of mitochondrial hexokinase was not inhibited by 150 microM 3 - BrPA , but this concentration caused more than 70 % inhibition of GAPDH ( glyceraldehyde - 3 - phosphate dehydrogenase ) and 3 - phosphoglycerate kinase activities .
Here , we showed that proapoptotic activity of HDACi was robustly enhanced by E1A in multiple cancer cells , but not in normal cells .
Some mice in each group were euthanized 24 hours after the end of IR .
Three patients discontinued therapy .
The time courses of changes in MMP - 1 , bone growth factors ( TGF - beta1 and bFGF ) , and hGH , respectively , correlated significantly during the lengthening phase , indicating common regulatory pathways for these factors in distraction osteogenesis .
Furthermore , these results demonstrate that different changes of proinflammatory cytokines , CRP and inhibiting factors are consistent with associated clinical benefit or with disease progression , respectively .
TF is involved in cell migration , embryogenesis and angiogenesis .
However , E mu - directed coexpression of cyclin D1 and N - MYC or L - MYC in double transgenic mice reveals a strong cooperative effect between MYC and cyclin D1 provoking the rapid development of clonal pre - B and B - cell lymphomas .
RESULTS : All the primary breast cancers and the lymph node metastases were positive for Glut - 1 .
CONCLUSION : Exposure of clonal B lymphocytes from patients with CLL to simvastatin decreases viability significantly by the induction of apoptosis .
PURPOSE : The poor prognosis associated with lung cancer is related to the high incidence of regional and distant metastasis .
Together , the results of this study identify molecular mechanisms that initiate hemangiosarcoma , a key step in understanding safety concerns that can impact drug decision processes , and identified hypoxia as a possible contributing factor for 2 - BE - induced hemangiosarcoma in mice .
Based on ChIP analysis , the transcriptional regulation of BMP - 2 gene by NF - kappaB may be partially attributed to binding to kappab site on the BMP - 2 promoter .
Protective function of von Hippel - Lindau protein against impaired protein processing in renal carcinoma cells .
Using a retroviral gene transfer approach , we found that constitutive activation of MEK5 / ERK5 signaling strongly inhibits EC migration and results in massive morphological changes .
Additional cofactors and mutational events may be important in the pathogenesis of invasive cervical cancers and may include chromosomal rearrangements , loss of constitutional heterozygosity , and proto - oncogene activation .
The integrin alpha5beta1 - Fibronectin interaction was demonstrated on the chip .
Considering the relatively few number of patients treated by angiogenic therapy , the interpretation of clinical results needs cautiousness .
While the role of protein tyrosine kinases has been examined extensively in human breast tumorigenesis , the role of PTPases in this process is virtually unknown .
Gross evaluation included shrinkage and stiffness .
p63 - positive cells were found in 16 % of carcinomas .
With a p53 - null cell line ( EU - 4 ) , although doxorubicin treatment arrested cells in G ( 2 ) / M , survivin expression was unchanged , and cells underwent only limited apoptosis .
Multivariate analysis revealed abnormal E - cadherin expression as an independent factor that correlated with submucosal invasion in early gastric cancer .
Induction of the leukemogenic phenotype is generally associated with inappropriate expression of this transcriptional regulator .
Using immunoblot analysis , we show that AdGFPFasL ( TET ) is capable of initiating the classic Fas - mediated apoptotic pathway in DU145 cells , which includes activation of caspases - 8 , - 3 , - 7 , and - 9 , BID cleavage , cytochrome c release from mitochondria , and PARP cleavage .
We have demonstrated recently that lactoferrin enhances the expression of a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor family , Fas , in the colon mucosa during both early and late stages of carcinogenesis .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) has recently attracted attention as a potent inducer of vascular permeability and angiogenesis .
We further show that down - regulation of caspase 3 via overexpression of RASSF1C reduces breast cancer cells ' sensitivity to the apoptosis inducing agent , etoposide .
FGFR1 and FGFR2 were present on explants .
Increased NOS activity is mediated solely by Ca ( 2 + ) - dependent NOS and , as shown by immunoblotting , an upregulation of endothelial NOS .
No ocular or systemic bevacizumab - related side effects were observed .
A receptor for angiostatin was identified on the surface of endothelial cells as F ( 1 ) - F ( 0 ) ATP synthase ( Moser et al . , 1999 ) .
Statistical analysis revealed a significantly inverse correlation between AI and IMVD ( r = - 0 . 53 , P less than 0 . 01 ) .
The degree of corneal infiltration , ulceration , corneal clouding , hypopyon , conjunctivitis , neovascularization , and corneal perforation was monitored over a 24 - day period , as well as recultivation and resistance to fluconazole of the C . albicans pathogen .
Chronic wounds are a major secondary complication for many people with impaired mobility .
Our results suggest that TEL acts as a tumor suppressor , in part , by transcriptional repression of stromelysin - 1 .
Increased glycolysis is a characteristic of cancer cells .
METHODS : One hundred and one specimens obtained from surgery were studied by immunohistochemistry using monoclonal anti - E - cadherin , anti - alpha - catenin and anti - p53 antibodies .
In conclusion , allogeneic FM - MSC injection did not elicit a lymphocyte proliferative response and provided significant improvement in a rat model of hind limb ischemia , comparable to the response to BM - MSC .
This protein has been shown to be a protein kinase that phosphorylates on tyrosine residues .
The expression of NP - 1 , NP - 2 , and plexin - A1 was not altered in human ovarian surface epithelial and ovarian cancer cells .
In animal or cell culture studies , the growth and spread of cancer can be slowed by many nutrients , food factors , herbal extracts , and well - tolerated , available drugs that are still rarely used in the clinical management of cancer , in part because they seem unlikely to constitute definitive therapies in themselves .
The cytostatic drug doxorubicin is a well - known chemotherapeutic agent which is used in treatment of a wide variety of cancers .
These inhibitors are directed towards the receptors of VEGF or intracellular substrates for the receptors .
We also examined islet endotheliuml / oxidative stress ( OS ) / inflammation - related gene expression , islet vascularization and fibrosis after treatment with the interleukin - 1 ( IL - 1 ) receptor antagonist ( IL - 1Ra ) .
We have provided convincing preclinical evidence that HTPB is a potent HDAC targeted inhibitor and is thus a promising candidate for lung cancer chemotherapy .
METHODS : Human umbilical endothelial cells were treated with angiostatin or thalidomide and bFGF - induced proliferation was assessed with the MTT assay .
This study aimed to clarify the relationship between the expression of the EphA2 and E - cadherin proteins and clinicopathological characteristics , with reference to the expression levels of both EphA2 and E - cadherin , in patients with colorectal cancer .
These immortally transformed cells ( KMST - 6 ) showed no clonability in soft agar and were not tumorigenic .
TS and DPD proteins were overexpressed in primary OSCC compared to that in normal mucosa .
The adenomatous polyposis coli ( APC ) gene , whose mutations are responsible for familial adenomatous polyposis , is a major negative controller of the Wnt / beta - catenin pathway .
This low glucose utilization is in contrast to the high [ 11C ] methionine uptake and the malignancy of these tumors .
RESULTS : The maximum tolerated dose of galectin - 3C in nude mice was determined to be > 125 mg / kg without overt adverse effects .
In addition , VEGF might be associated with the etiology of periodontitis in its early stages according to neovascularization stimulated by periodontal pathogens causing swelling and edema .
Moreover , we showed that combination of E1A gene therapy and SAHA showed high therapeutic efficacy with low toxicity in vivo ovarian and breast xenograft models .
2 - BE is a hemolytic agent that induces hemangiosarcomas in mice .
Gliomas are the most common primary tumours of the central nervous system , with nearly 15 , 000 diagnosed annually in the United States and a lethality approaching 80 % within the first year of glioblastoma diagnosis .
The group with lymphatic metastasis had higher levels than the group without lymphatic metastasis ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
96 , 2811 - 2816 .
Previous studies have shown that v - erbA and v - myb can induce the proliferation of avian erythroid cells in culture .
Since then , important progress has been made with respect to the understanding of the role of the Pten protein in the normal development of the brain as well as in the molecular pathogenesis of human gliomas .
Endothelial cells bound fluorescein - labeled collagen I fibrils , an interaction specifically inhibited by SMI496 .
Abnormal expression of beta - catenin was significantly correlated with poor differentiation and lymph node metastasis .
RESULTS : HER2 receptor protein was absent in adenomas and in normal gallbladder epithelium .
It may be that metastasis suppression by the nm23 gene is a tissue - specific phenomenon .
Little is known about the metabolic adaptation of endothelial cells through such a transformation .
One of the clones ( clone 1510 ) contained the gene encoding latent membrane protein ( LMP ) .
Furthermore , this may explain why cancer in younger patients is more often ' aggressive ' .
To investigate this hypothesis , we isolated primary mouse embryonic fibroblast ( MEF ) lines from Fh1 - deficient mice .
Conditioned media prepared from colon cells treated with an adenosine analog increased human umbilical vein endothelial cell migration .
Formation of new bone during vertical distraction osteogenesis of the human mandible is related to the presence of blood vessels .
Effects of doxycycline on in vitro growth , migration , and gelatinase activity of breast carcinoma cells .
Recently , there is an increasing number of patents which have been focused on the inhibitors of VEGF action .
Our data showed that under hypoxia the secreted sTie2 selectively inhibited tube formation and migration capacities of endothelial cells in vitro .
A better understanding of the mechanisms of arteriogenesis will be important for the design of more effective strategies for the treatment of patients with ischemic vascular diseases .
The Met proto - oncogene mesenchymal to epithelial cell conversion .
In control group , there was no vascular bundle implantation .
Angiogenesis plays an important role in many types of cancer .
They also antagonised the effects of both thrombin and SFLLR on MMP - 2 activation .
Sequencing of exons 5 through 8 of the p53 gene revealed no mutations , nor were mutations detected in the N - or K - ras protooncogenes in four of the carcinomas and their respective metastatic deposits .
Cediranib may , therefore , be an effective means of preventing tumor progression , not only by inhibiting VEGFR - 2 activity and angiogenesis , but also by concomitantly inhibiting VEGFR - 3 activity and lymphangiogenesis .
The formation of functional units with these various proteins allows the uPAR to mediate the focused proteolysis required for cell migration and invasion and to contribute both directly and indirectly to cell adhesive processes in a non - proteolytic fashion .
Stimulation of endothelial cell migration by vascular permeability factor / vascular endothelial growth factor through cooperative mechanisms involving the alphavbeta3 integrin , osteopontin , and thrombin .
Many of the circulatory and transport properties of the sheep placenta are similar to those of the human placenta and as such , the pregnant sheep offers an excellent model in which to study the development of IUGR .
Killing tumor cells through their surface beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin or major histocompatibility complex class I molecules .
RESULTS : Endometrial glands in the proliferative and early secretory phase expressed both DCC and netrin - 1 , but glands in the late - secretory phase tended to silence DCC expression .
CONCLUSION : MCT targeting significantly reduced the viability of U - 87 MG cells mediated by both apoptosis and necrosis .
The integration of vascular grading in clinical trials on adjuvant chemotherapy and / or radiotherapy could substantially contribute in defining groups of operable patients who might benefit from cytotoxic treatment .
To test this hypothesis , we investigated the effect of iNOS deficiency ( by L - NIL ) on angiogenesis in a hindlimb ischemia model .
In this review , we outline the known mechanisms that impair p53 itself and its immediate regulators or target genes during melanomagenesis .
Expression of cyclooxygenase ( COX ) - 2 plays a key role in tumorigenesis and development and peroxisome proliferator - activated receptor gamma ( PPARgamma ) has been implicated in the control of COX - 2 expression in some tissues .
The WNT / TCF target genes HOXB9 and LEF1 are identified as mediators of chemotactic invasion and colony outgrowth .
Supernatant from cultures of Ve - and OMP - stimulated HGF strongly induced VPE .
Mutations affecting nuclear transport were far more critical for the ability to interfere with myogenic differentiation than were those affecting the transforming potential ; cytoplasmic SVLT expression was fully compatible with the terminal differentiation of C2 cells , despite enabling them to grow in semisolid medium , thus showing that the myogenesis - inhibiting property can be dissociated from transforming competence .
Manipulating angiomiRs in the settings of pathological vascularization represents a new therapeutic approach .
GSE could also inhibit the VEGF receptor / mitogen - activated protein kinase - mediated signaling pathway in endothelial cells .
Histopathological development of gastric tumors induced by N - methyl - N ' - nitro - N - nitrosoguanidine in rats .
Ovarian cancer is a silent killer , and shows early extensive tumor invasion and peritoneal metastasis .
cDNA microarray expression analysis showed that the mouse homologue of Dss1 is induced by TPA .
PTTG induced S100A4 and galectin - 1 mRNA and protein expression as assessed by Western blot and reverse transcription - PCR .
Promotion of tumorigenesis by heterozygous disruption of the beclin 1 autophagy gene .
Histogenesis of the abnormal vessels may involve production of an angiogenic factor by the cancerized epithelia .
Our recent studies show that progestins induce vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) in breast cancer cells that express mutant p53 protein .
In patients with atherosclerotic vascular diseases , collateral vessels bypassing major arterial obstructions have frequently been observed .
Angiogenesis plays a critical role in the growth and metastasis of tumors .
RESULTS : Survivin expression was noted in 30 ( 81 % ) of breast carcinomas , and in normal breast tissue , in nuclei , and cytoplasm .
The portion of the LTR responsible for trans activation was mapped by deletions to lie within the U3 region .
Since tumor cell - derived TSP - 1 has the potential to promote angiogenesis in the tumor microenvironment , it could be a potential target for breast cancer therapy .
A growing body of evidence indicates that deregulation of stem cell fate determinants is a hallmark of many types of malignancies .
Patients with low or absence expressing SPARC had significantly worse overall survival and disease - free survival in a Single Factor Analysis ; Cox Regression Analysis , SPARC emerged as an overall survival and disease - free survival independent prognostic factor for colon cancer .
CNV size did not affect visual outcomes .
The authors studied insulin effects on tumor and skeletal muscle metabolism with 2 - [ 18F ] - fluoro - 2 - deoxy - D - glucose ( [ 18F ] FDG ) and positron emission tomography ( PET ) .
There are currently no other means of treatment for this disorder , which has a high morbidity and mortality rate .
However , by treatment with Ha - ras oncogenes derived from a human lung carcinoma or Harvey murine sarcoma virus , the KMST - 6 cells acquired elevated clonability in soft agar and transplantability in nude mice .
Effects of 4 - alkylmorpholine N - oxides on ATP - producing processes in Ehrlich ascites and L1210 leukaemia cells .
No statistically significant relationships were found between age at onset of MDS or AML and patient gender , G - CSF dose , or duration of G - CSF therapy .
In an effort to decipher the mechanism by which HGF up - regulates its receptor , we found that c - Met is a direct transcriptional target of Mitf .
Furthermore , it was showed that GSH depletion induced by MOG rendered some leukemia cell lines more sensitive to arsenic trioxide ( As2O3 ) , doxorubicin or cisplatin .
Effect of antitumor agents on cytotoxicity induction by sodium fluoride .
Apoptosis is a regulated form of cell death that may be triggered by natural killer ( NK ) or cytotoxic T cells , which effect target cell lysis by cytolytic effector and related proteins through complex intracellular signals .
The data support the concept that a positive relationship exists between the density of blood vessels and the formation of bone .
The loss of one allele of the p53 gene ( located on chromosome 17p13 ) occurred in at least 6 ( 60 % ) of the 10 patients who were heterozygous at the p53 locus .
These proliferative effects were accompanied by increased VEGF expression and release that were observed as early as 4 h after 20 - HETE agonist addition .
RESULTS : Mean ( + / - SEM ) graft survival was significantly prolonged in animals receiving spironolactone ( 14 . 9 + / - 2 . 0 days ) compared with both PBS - treated ( 12 . 3 + / - 1 . 2 days , p = 0 . 007 ) and untreated controls ( 13 . 0 + / - 1 . 0 days , p = 0 . 01 ) .
Analysis of gene expression revealed increased expression of ANGPT1 , ANGPT2 , platelet - derived growth factor - B , placental growth factor , and VEGF mRNA in AdCA5 - injected eyes .
Osteonectin is one of the major non - collagenous proteins of bone .
Photodynamic therapy with verteporfin for subfoveal choroidal neovascularization secondary to pathologic myopia : long - term study .
However , agents such as verteporfin , a second - generation benzoporphyrin derivative , appear to be free from the extensive phototoxicity that limited the success of previous agents .
Aqueous humor was collected at cataract surgery from 19 diabetic patients and from 13 age - and sex - matched normoglycemic controls .
Cells cannot survive extended severe ischemia but may be able to adapt to a moderate condition where diffusion to and from bordering nonischemic regions sustains vital functions .
[ Altered expression of PTEN gene and LOH of its epigenetic microsatellite in gastric carcinoma ] .
IL - 17F ablation decreased IL - 1beta and Cox - 2 expression as well as IL - 17 receptor C ( IL - 17RC ) expression , which were increased in tumors from Apc ( Min / + ) mice .
The antisense oligomers complementary to the ER suppressed proliferation and transformed phenotypes of K12V cells .
Involvement of PTEN promoter methylation in cerebral cavernous malformations .
Surprisingly , however , further phosphorylation of this protein on addition of phorbol ester was greatly reduced .
Besides regulating leukocyte trafficking in normal and injured tissues , several chemokines may positively or negatively regulate angiogenesis .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , a recently identified growth factor with significant angiogenic properties , may be a major tumor angiogenesis regulator .
Among these are vascular endothelial growth factor - A ( VEGF - A ) , the key angiogenic stimulant , and VEGF - C , a primary mediator of lymphangiogenesis .
Based on this observation , we generated the first transgenic mouse model with a targeted overexpression of Tsg101 in the developing mammary gland to test whether exogenous Tsg101 is capable of initiating tumorigenesis .
In vivo , LeTx decreased MAPK activity and blocked fibrosarcoma growth .
Analyses of this sort may help to identify the cellular targets of pp60src whose phosphorylation is necessary for the increased glucose transport rate .
METHODS : We assessed antiapoptotic and proapoptotic markers in vascular and perivascular cells in lung biopsy samples from 18 patients with CHD , 7 with reversible and 11 with irreversible PHT , and 6 control patients .
Cell lines established from such foci elicit tumours in syngeneic animals .
In contrast , continuous ( 24h ) treatment with doxorubicin reduced the number of living cells with no parallel raise in the amount of dead cells .
These studies showed that allergen - induced pulmonary inflammation resulted in a > 3 - fold increase in lung metastases .
These findings suggest that targeting beta ( 2 ) M or MHC class I by using antibodies or other agents offers a potential therapeutic approach for beta ( 2 ) M / MHC class I - expressing malignancies .
Angiogenesis is induced by soluble factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) released from tumor cells in hypoxia .
Both agents inhibited angiogenesis and induced apoptosis when compared to tumors from control animals .
Forty male golden hamsters were divided into four equal groups .
The TB animals had significantly lower plasma glucose and higher blood lactic acid levels compared with NTB animals .
Mechanisms of pericyte recruitment in tumour angiogenesis : a new role for metalloproteinases .
To examine the mechanisms underlying the relative resistance in HCC , we investigated the role of autophagy , an evolutionarily conserved self - digestion pathway , in hepatoma cells in vitro and in vivo .
When the macro - molecular synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide ( CHX ) or actinomycin D ( Act D ) was present for 26 hours in the absence of GM - CSF and FBS , apoptosis was inhibited .
A significant correlation between LDH5 and TKTL1 within each histologic tumortype could not be revealed .
Cancer cells typically display gene dysfunction and endogenous or exogenous insults resulting in gene dysfunction are often carcinogenic .
Rofecoxib as adjunctive therapy for haemophilic arthropathy .
Disturbances in expression of apoptosis - associated proteins take part in the development and progression of many human malignancies .
Results were analyzed with chi2 tests .
To our knowledge , this is the first study to evaluate the effects of 2ME2 in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
Hypoxic induction of HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma lines is mediated by stress activated protein kinases .
In this study , we hypothesized that ICAM - 3 has an additional effect on cancer cell migration and invasion because molecules induced by ICAM - 3 are known as regulators of cell migration and invasion .
Since hexokinase is the first rate limiting enzyme in the glycolytic pathway , elevated levels of Type II like hexokinase in tumors are of great significance in this context .
To examine this hypothesis , we used NCI - H1299 non - small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) cell line ( p53 and PTEN null cell ) and constructed an ICAM - 3 - over - expressing stable transfectant , which exhibited increased cell migration and invasion .
The relationship between TS and DPD expression and clinicopathological data was analyzed .
Hypothesis : Induced angiogenesis after surgery in premenopausal node - positive breast cancer patients is a major underlying reason why adjuvant chemotherapy works particularly well for those patients .
The animals in groups 3 and 4 also received L - NIL and saline respectively without surgical procedure .
Recently , it was shown that Stat3 is activated through novel and noncanonical mechanisms , including phosphorylation at S727 .
Effect of transplanted mesenchymal stem cells from rats of different ages on the improvement of heart function after acute myocardial infarction .
In vitro studies found that exposure to Cum - OOH reduced the level of glutathione ( GSH ) in mouse epidermal cells ( JB6 P + ) and caused the induction of AP - 1 .
Converging studies from many investigators indicate that RUNX1 has a critical role in the correct maintenance of essential cellular functions during embryonic development and after birth .
DNA of the non - tumorigenic cell hybrids transformed Rat - 1 cells to anchorage - independent proliferation as expected for the transforming human Ha - ras gene present in the donor DNA .
Tumor necrosis factor - alpha ( TNF - alpha ) was first isolated two decades ago as a macrophageproduced protein that can effectively kill tumor cells .
VEGF - targeted therapy : therapeutic potential and recent advances .
These novel functions of p53 help to align metabolic processes with the proliferation and energy status , to maintain optimal mode of glucose metabolism and to boost the energy efficient mitochondrial respiration in response to ATP deficiency .
Recently , considerable attentions have been devoted to the physiological roles of angiopoietin ( Ang ) - 1 and - 2 as regulatory factors of VEGF .
The in vivo role of 9E3 / CEF4 may be involved with chemotaxis and metastasis , rather than with direct stimulation of mitogenicity .
Prognostic significance of heat shock protein 27 ( HSP27 ) in patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma .
The high - oncogenic - risk HPV types associated with invasive cervical cancer produce two oncoproteins , designated E6 and E7 , which interact with endogenous cell cycle regulatory proteins , including p53 and Rb .
MDA - MB - 231 cells alone or breast cancer samples did not express RANKL mRNA .
Typically , proliferation and chemotaxis of endothelial cells is driven by growth factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) .
We developed reference intervals for serum and urine IL - 8 level in 131 control individuals .
Forty - seven specimens resected from patients with stage II and III squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) of the esophagus were studied using immunohistochemical staining .
On strips of all widths , ECs tended to migrate in the direction of strips .
Cell death induced by survivin targeting exhibited the hallmarks of mitochondrial - dependent apoptosis with release of cytochrome c and loss of mitochondrial transmembrane potential and was suppressed in Apaf - 1 or caspase - 9 knockout mouse embryonic fibroblasts .
The insulin - conditioned RPE cell media stimulated capillary endothelial cell proliferation , an effect that was completely blocked by anti - VEGF neutralizing antibody .
Robo1 and Robo4 interact and share molecules such as Slit2 , Mena and Vilse , a Cdc42 - GAP .
The results indicated that exogenous lactate was the major substrate for oxidative metabolism .
This review will focus on recent studies to define the molecular mechanisms for the antivascular actions of the MBDs , information that could be useful in the identification or design of agents whose actions more selectively target the tumor vasculature .
This finding may help to elucidate the relationship of WT1 and N - myc in tumorigenesis and renal development .
Oncogenic mechanisms of Evi - 1 protein .
Since the function of 9E3 / CEF4 is unknown , we examined the effect of the protein on mitogenicity and chemotaxis , as well as its expression , in fibroblasts and peripheral blood cells .
Patterns of X - chromosome inactivation , mutations in the K - ras gene , mutations or allelic loss of the p53 gene , or human papillomavirus detection were identical in both endometrial and ovarian lesions in three of the cases suggesting that those three cases represented single primary tumors with metastases .
Interestingly , c - Ski overexpression resulted in extensive acceleration of the growth of subcutaneous xenografts in BALB / c nu / nu female mice ( 6 weeks of age ) .
Akt knockdown and an mTOR inhibitor revealed the importance of the Akt / mTOR pathway in the postirradiation accumulation of HIF - 1alpha .
We examined transformation - induced alterations in proliferative and invasive abilities , responses to the invasion and proliferation - regulating growth factor TGFbeta and changes in gene expression for invasion - associated enzymes or enzyme inhibitors .
Metabolic alterations in a noncachectic animal tumor system .
A total of 28 patients between 3 and 37 years of age were treated for a total of 42 courses of rofecoxib treatment .
The introduction of mutations into the T - antigen J domain resulted in mutation - specific and variable inhibition of apoptosis .
Constitutive expression of a transfected Hox 1 . 4 gene under the control of a simian virus 40 promotor leads to differentiated cell morphology similar to that of the RA - induced phenotype and restores the growth - inhibitory effects of RA in N - ras - transformed cells .
Delayed addition of GM - CSF , but not FBS , permitted partial rescue of the cells , inhibiting increasing rates of accumulation of fragmented DNA .
The methylation status was correlated to the clinical manifestations and to PTEN expression , which was analyzed by both Western blot and immunohistochemistry .
Patients ' reading vision could not be saved for a long - term run .
The Wilms ' tumor 1 ( WT1 ) gene is a tumor suppressor gene that encodes a zinc - finger transcription factor .
The regulation of cell survival functions by Pak1 - DLC1 interaction represents a novel mechanism by which a signaling kinase might regulate the cancerous phenotypes .
The molecular basis of this behaviour could be related to different locations for the lactate dehydrogenase isoenzymes , as suggested by their immunohistochemical labelling .
Apoptotic index ( AI ) was calculated , based on the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase - mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate biotin nick end labeling , to evaluate apoptosis .
In vivo assay further showed that GSE could inhibit tumor growth and tumor angiogenesis of MDA - MB - 231 breast cancer cells in mice .
Evaluation of electrical stimulation for ischemic wound therapy : a feasibility study using the lapine wound model .
By use of electric mobility shift assays , we demonstrate that alpha - MSH ( 10 ( - 6 ) to 10 ( - 14 ) M ) activates AP - 1 in human dermal fibroblasts , whereas coincubation with interleukin - 1 beta ( IL - 1 beta ) results in suppression of its activation .
Thalidomide in concentrations from 0 . 1 microM to 10 microM did not change cell proliferation of 72 - h cell cultures .
These results indicate that Pbx1 is a target gene of Evi - 1 involved in Evi - 1 - mediated leukemogenesis .
Rat tissues known to express these glucose transporters were used as controls .
Intramolecular self - phosphorylation of Tyr1173 removes a competitive inhibitory constraint to enhance phosphorylation of substrates .
The data provide an example of coordinated changes in the expression of two cell adhesion molecules , syndecan - 1 and E - cadherin during epithelial cell transformation .
TAMs counts was related to VEGF - C expression in OSCC ( r = 0 . 370 , P < 0 . 05 ) .
Melissoidesin G ( MOG ) is a new diterpenoid purified from Isodon melissoides , a plant used in Chinese traditional medicine as antitumor and anti - inflammatory agents .
Correlation analysis was performed between blood vessel parameters and the amount of new bone formed during distraction .
In contrast , none of the patients with JEB had elevated levels of bFGF .
To understand the biologic mechanisms of this extremely effective response , we compared by microarray the gene - expression profile of patients ' biopsies taken before and after radiation .
PURPOSE : The comparative study of differentially expression of protein profiles of hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines with various metastasic potential and screening key molecules related to hepatocellular carcinoma metastasis and recurrence .
Arterial pressure and cardiac output were unchanged .
N - myc has proapoptotic functions , yet it acts as an oncogene in neuroblastoma .
All - trans retinoic acid ( ATRA ) could potently inhibit the growth of prostate cancer cells in vitro and its combination with various anticancer agents results in increased cytotoxicity .
Molecular requirements for epithelial - mesenchymal transition during tumor progression .
VEGF mRNA expression was also observed in Ve - and OMP - stimulated HGF .
The distribution of basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) was studied immunohistochemically in fresh frozen sections of normal human tissues .
In this study , we demonstrate that SPARC inhibits human arterial smooth muscle cell proliferation stimulated by platelet - derived growth factor or by adhesion to monomeric type I collagen .
Recently serum S - 100beta has shown promise as a tumour marker in melanoma ; however , its use as a prognostic marker in the advanced stage needs to be confirmed .
METHODS : In this study , we screened the expression profile of AQP0 - 12 in breast cancer tissues and corresponding normal tissues by RT - PCR , Western blotting and immunohistochemistry .
The combination diagnosis / treatment device should be useful in optimizing FV treatment and in refining and evaluating the efficacy of DEP in future clinical trials .
These findings suggest that c - Ski overexpression promotes the growth of diffuse - type gastric carcinoma through induction of angiogenesis .
These results could explain the angiogenic and tumor - promoting effect of thrombin and provide the basis for development of thrombin receptor mimetics or antagonists for therapeutic application .
Lesion composition also appears to influence visual outcome with verteporfin use .
Better stem cell and progenitor cell markers as well as the ability to specifically target oncogenes into different mammary cell types will be needed to determine the spectrum of oncogene transformation for stem cells versus more differentiated cells .
To study Hedgehog signaling in vivo a hind limb tumor model with the B16F0 cell line was used .
Effect of 1 - alkylpyrrolidine N - oxides on energy metabolism of cancer cells .
Thus , DATS may represent a colon cancer preventive agent and can be used in the future .
The p53 and VEGF staining statuses were coincident in only 21 % of the tumors , and no significant correlation was found between p53 and VEGF statuses .
This ultimately deprives VEGF receptors of an essential molecule required for promoting the disruption of endothelial cell - cell contacts and paracellular permeability .
The physiological significance of these observations are discussed .
A similar ser120 - gly mutation in NME1 has been found in human neuroblastoma , suggesting that mutation in this region may be a general phenomenon related to tumor progression .
One option is to reduce the G - CSF dosage as much as possible , and observe the tempo of progression , if any , to more overt signs of malignancy .
By live videomicroscopy , we confirmed that the vessels were largely nonfunctional in the absence of alpha2beta1 integrin .
Serum vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) levels were measured using the enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) kit .
Additionally , knockdown of p600 reduced transformation of cells expressing both BPV - 1 E6 and E7 , as well as E6 alone , suggesting that the ability of E7 to transformed cells is mediated , at least in part , through its ability to bind p600 .
The single non - epithelial line induced foci and was found to contain an activated c - Ki - ras gene with a G - - - - A transition in codon 12 .
A higher percentage of cells expressing topo I in primary colorectal cancer was significantly associated with advanced age ( P = . 040 ) .
In the control group ( group 1 ) no further management was undertaken .
Mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) activities were investigated to explore the mechanism of this induction .
There was no significant difference of intraoperative blood loss between patients with vitamin K , ( 748 . 27 + / - 448 . 51 ) ml , and those without vitamin K , ( 767 . 31 + / - 547 . 89 ) ml ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
We tested this possibility with in vitro assays using human endothelial cells , as well as in a rodent hindlimb ischemia model .
CONCLUSIONS : We have established a model to study the regulation of angiogenesis by human adipose tissue .
The tumor cells also display enhanced expression of desmosomal and tight - junction proteins .
Furthermore , the renal carcinoma cell lines expressed PAF - R .
Agents that inhibit Hsp90 function hold significant promise in cancer therapy .
In contrast , VEGF121 , which does not bind to NRP1 , did not support complex formation .
We used a cellular model of tumor invasion to investigate the effect of activated platelets on the human ovarian cancer cell line , SKOV3 .
To observe the influence of fungus polysaccharides compounds ( FPC ) in inducing human liver cancer cell Bel - 7402 apoptosis in cell cultivating in vitro , the authors analyzed tumor inhibitive gene P53 expression in Bel - 7402 apoptosis by applying double immuno - marker .
In addition , expression of c - MYC from a constitutive promoter also abrogated the STAT3 - mediated arrest , and strikingly , cooperated with OSM to promote anchorage - independent growth ( AIG ) , a property associated with malignant transformation .
Highly metastatic GSAS / N3 and N5 cells showed an enhanced NF - kappaB activity , thus contributing to increased migration , invasion , and a poor prognosis compared with the parent cells .
Remarkably , lymphomas arising in Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) mice ( encoding p53R172P ) retain stable genomes .
No significant correlation was found between topo I protein expression and sex , Dukes ' stage , differentiation grade , survival status , p53 status , and PCNA status .
Prior studies showed enhancement of such carcinogenesis by repeated 20 rad head and neck X - radiation exposures , and it was proposed that one possible mechanism was radiogenic alteration of the functional microvasculature in a manner which favored subsequent tumor development .
There was no correlation between the serum and urine concentrations of IL - 8 and clinical variables , the only exception being the international prognostic index ( IPI ) , which showed a marginal correlation with urine IL - 8 / Cr levels ( P = 0 . 07 ) .
Suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid ( SAHA ) has been approved as a drug to treat cutaneous T cell lymphoma , and the combination of HDACi and other agents have been actively tested in many clinical trials .
The detection of increased abundance of EGF - R or Her - 2 / neu proteins in human tumours can provide additional information on the disease - free survival and overall survival for patients with breast , ovarian , endometrial or cervical cancer .
Immune consequences of burn injury .
This resulted in formation of tumors , which were pigmented and of epithelial origin .
Activation of Notch proto - oncogenes has been associated with tumorigenesis in several human and other mammalian cancers .
These discoveries have dramatically changed the work - up and genetic counseling of patients and families with paragangliomas and / or pheochromocytomas .
Modulation of angiogenesis and progelatinase a by thrombin receptor mimetics and antagonists .
The anti - tumour effect of L - NAME after systemic administration was studied in a renal subcapsular CC531 adenocarcinoma model in rats .
These experimental facts indicated that acquisition of metastatic ability coupled with the function of K - ras oncogene was conditional in nature , being strongly affected by in vivo tumor circumstances .
In contrast , the response of cells to long - term treatment with PDBu was significantly different depending upon the initial growth state of the cells .
The sensitivity and specificity of s - VEGF at the cut - off level of 100 pg / ml , as determined by the receiver - operating - characteristics curve , were 80 . 0 % and 72 . 5 % , respectively .
In this study , we used two inflammatory agents , IL - 1beta and phorbol myristic acetate , to activate PKC isozymes and specific inhibitors of PKCalpha ( Go6976 ) and PKCbeta ( hispidin ) to distinguish how each of these isoform ( s ) controls angiogenesis , wound healing , and permeability .
Multikinase inhibitor sorafenib inhibits proliferation and angiogenesis of tumors by suppressing the Raf / MEK / ERK signaling pathway and VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase .
Importantly , PTHrP - specific neutralizing antibodies slowed the progression and metastasis of human breast cancer xenografts .
Following cotransfection of p53 - null EU - 4 cells with survivin promoter - luciferase constructs and either wt - p53 or different mut - p53 expression vectors , wt - p53 inhibited survivin promoter activity ; p53 - mediated inhibition could be abrogated by overexpression of murine double minute2 ( MDM2 ) protein .
Because these phenomena are all of critical importance during morphogenesis , and because FAK is expressed in embryonic cells , evidence has been accumulating to indicate that FAK may be an important modulator of developmental processes .
Tumorigenic activity of rho genes from Aplysia californica .
The rate of oxygen utilization was not altered by the addition of 0 . 5 mM glutamine ; 5 mM glucose induced an inhibition of respiration .
VDAs specifically target and destroy well - established tumor vessels with ischemia and destruction of large masses with central hemorrhagic necrosis and survival of a thin peripheral tumor layer .
The expression of 14 - 3 - 3zeta was upregulated in stage I NSCLC .
Although some recent reports suggest that microvessel counts in non - small cell lung cancer are related to a poor disease outcome , the results were not conclusive and were not compared with other molecular prognostic markers .
Certain carcinostatic agents induce the expression of E - selectin on endothelial cells and enhance the expression of carbohydrate ligands on cancer cells .
Furthermore , E7 mutant proteins impaired in their ability to bind p600 were transformation defective .
Human papillomavirus oncoprotein E6 inactivates the transcriptional coactivator human ADA3 .
Blood and vascular disorders underlie a plethora of pathologic conditions and are the single most frequent cause of human disease .
Furthermore , p53 overexpression by tumors was almost twice as common in the RSCM group as in the RSCB group .
Furthermore , induction of MKP - 1 correlated with the inhibition of extracellular signal - regulated kinase ( ERK1 / 2 ) and c - Jun N - terminal kinase ( JNK ) activity , whereas p38 activity was minimally affected .
Further deletions reveal a sequence within the carboxy - terminal domain that is responsible for in vivo bundle formation .
Single conditional knockouts for Smad1 or Smad5 or mice homozygous null for Smad8 are viable and fertile .
We have investigated the expression of the CD40 - CD154 system in 24 primary cultures derived from renal cell carcinomas , its correlation with tumor stage and its potential functional significance .
Crucial genetic events underlying the initiation and progression of colorectal and pancreatic adenocarcinoma with a particular focus on the modulation of angiogenesis and antiangiogenic therapies are discussed .
Sunitinib is an oral multitargeted receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor with antiangiogenic and antitumor activity that mainly targets vascular endothelial growth factor receptors ( VEGFRs ) .
In 32 evaluated breast cancer patients with endocrine - dependent distant metastases treated with a new immunotherapy schedule ( cyclic administration of beta - interferon and interleukin - 2 ) , cellular immunity , cytokines and CRP were related to the clinical course .
Angiopoietin / tie - 2 as mediators of angiogenesis : a role in congestive heart failure ?
Homeostatic functions of the p53 tumor suppressor : regulation of energy metabolism and antioxidant defense .
The excessive production of ROS can damage protein , lipids , nucleic acids , and matrix components .
Accumulating evidences indicate that receptor activator of NF - kB ligand ( RANKL ) is the ultimate extracellular mediator that stimulates osteoclast differentiation into mature osteoclasts .
The epithelioid cells were entirely supported by proliferated capillaries and arteries together with collagenous stroma .
These RNAs were not detected by Northern ( RNA ) hybridization in productively infected chicken embryo fibroblasts 48 h postinfection ; however , they were apparent 140 h postinfection .
Angiogenesis is a fundamental process to normal and abnormal tissue growth and repair , which consists of recruiting endothelial cells toward an angiogenic stimulus .
Additional experiments revealed FT to be effective component of UFT ; uracil remained ineffective in the inhibition of angiogenesis .
Furthermore , mouse embryonic fibroblasts required the presence of B16F0 cells to express Patched in a co - culture assay system .
Antisera to bovine u - PA blocked the increase in migration associated with increased c - src expression .
Identification of Dss1 as a 12 - O - tetradecanoylphorbol - 13 - acetate - responsive gene expressed in keratinocyte progenitor cells , with possible involvement in early skin tumorigenesis .
In the present study the effects of the 48 - hour administration of granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor ( GM - CSF ) ( 100 U / mL ) or interleukin - 3 ( IL - 3 ) ( 100 U / mL ) on the proliferative activity of leukemic cells and on the intracellular metabolism and cytotoxic efficacy of a subsequent 12 - hour application of cytosine arabinoside ( ara - C ) at doses of 0 . 1 , 1 . 0 , 10 . 0 , and 100 . 0 mumol / L were evaluated on bone marrow cells from 17 patients with acute myeloid leukemia .
Contemporary perspectives on vital pulp therapy : views from the endodontists and pediatric dentists .
BACKGROUND : Endostatin , a C - terminal fragment of collagen XVIII , is an endogenous angiogenesis inhibitor .
Functional studies showed that Sema7A stimulates cytoskeletal reorganization in human melanocytes , resulting in adhesion and dendrite formation .
RESULTS : Osteopontin small interference RNA ( siRNA ) inhibited osteopontin expression and cell invasion , promoted apoptosis in U251 cells .
This is the first report of increased p53 levels caused by HCMV in infected fibroblasts .
The tree / fruit can be divided into several anatomical compartments : ( 1 ) seed , ( 2 ) juice , ( 3 ) peel , ( 4 ) leaf , ( 5 ) flower , ( 6 ) bark , and ( 7 ) roots , each of which has interesting pharmacologic activity .
Up - regulation of PFKFB2 expression was mediated by the direct binding of ligand - activated androgen receptor to the PFKFB2 promoter .
There is more and more information on the role of ARF in the regulation of a cell cycle , apoptosis , and autophagy .
Lactate - dehydrogenase 5 is overexpressed in non - small cell lung cancer and correlates with the expression of the transketolase - like protein 1 .
Regulation of p53 - dependent apoptosis , transcriptional repression , and cell transformation by phosphorylation of the 55 - kilodalton E1B protein of human adenovirus type 5 .
SV40 Tag transformation of the normal invasive trophoblast results in a premalignant phenotype .
Ischemic cardiac muscle is additionally vulnerable because reperfusion is essential for survival but reperfusion itself poses additional stress principally from increased production of free radicals during reoxygenation .
Our previous studies have shown that the neurotransmitter dopamine could inhibit VEGF - induced phosphorylation of VEGF receptor 2 ( VEGFR - 2 ) , endothelial cell proliferation , migration , microvascular permeability , and thus , angiogenesis .
Newly formed bone densities were also found to be higher in these 2 groups .
Treatment of stage IV colorectal cancer is based on the type of prior therapy and patient - specific factors .
After 24 h treatment with 80 microM magnolol in serum - containing medium , about 50 % of the cells exhibited apoptotic features and 20 % necrotic features .
Serum soluble vascular adhesion protein - 1 is a valuable prognostic marker in gastric cancer .
In only 3 out of 13 cases , representing patients with adenocarcinomas of the stomach receiving chemotherapy , was ras p21 detected at elevated levels , whereas in patients with the following types of cancer no substantial change in serum ras p21 was observed ; nine with breast , 5 colon , 5 lung , 5 ovarian and 5 hepatocellular carcinomas .
GTPase - deficient , constitutively activated mutant of Galpha ( 12 ) ( Galpha ( 12 ) Q229L or Galpha ( 12 ) QL ) has been previously shown to induce oncogenic transformation of NIH3T3 cells promoting serum - and anchorage - independent growth .
The experimental approach includes : estimation of mitochondrial NAD [ P ] + - dependent malic enzyme activity ; respiratory activity of freshly harvested or fasted cells , and of isolated mitochondria ; and determination of the metabolites involved in the glycolytic and glutaminolytic pathways .
A C - terminal segment consisting of T - antigen amino acids 251 to 708 ( T251 - 708 ) also sensitized cells to 5 - FU - induced apoptosis .
These investigations demonstrate transformation of human ECs to an overtly malignant phenotype .
From mechanisms to therapy and prevention .
Erbb2 suppresses DNA damage - induced checkpoint activation and UV - induced mouse skin tumorigenesis .
Platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule ( PECAM ) - 1 has been previously implicated in endothelial cell migration ; additionally , anti - PECAM - 1 antibodies have been shown to inhibit in vivo angiogenesis .
The conclusion most consistent with the data is that the two MSRs are overlapping , spliced RNAs .
Hamsters were treated with either radiation , DMBA , radiation + DMBA , or no treatment .
Each was legally blind before treatment ( n = 1 ) , experienced little to no subjective improvement ( n = 2 ) , or was poorly compliant ( n = 2 ) .
The development of hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) presumably occurs in multiple steps and is influenced by numerous factors .
The update information testifies about protumoral activity of neutrophils : they migrate to a tumor and promote angiogenesis and metastasis at late stages of the tumor .
This suggested that CLA might inhibit angiogenesis in vivo .
The frequency of ITC in bone marrow was significantly associated with the stage of disease by ANOVA ( P < 0 . 01 ) .
There was negative correction between KISS1 and MMP - 9 protein expression ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
We propose that the upregulation of the secreted FGF - BP protein during early phases of pancreas and colon cancer could make this protein a possible serum marker indicating the presence of high - risk premalignant lesions .
The aim of the present study was to investigate the frequency of the less common p . Val600Lys ( V600K ) mutation in metastatic melanoma from a high incidence region .
Homeobox genes have a strikingly conserved 61 - amino acid sequence , encoding DNA - binding domain .
This metastatic ability was enhanced remarkably after in vivo tumor growth ( subcutaneous tumor formation in nude mice ) accompanied by increased mRNA expression and gene amplification of the human - derived K - ras oncogene , while it declined gradually as the passage number increased in vitro , with corresponding decreases of gene amplification and mRNA expression .
We show here that constitutively active STAT3 acts as a master regulator of cell metabolism , inducing aerobic glycolysis and down - regulating mitochondrial activity both in primary fibroblasts and in STAT3 - dependent tumour cell lines .
Here , we discuss the possibility for MMPs to contribute to pericyte recruitment at six levels : ( 1 ) direct promotion of pericyte invasion by extracellular matrix degradation ; ( 2 ) stimulation of pericyte proliferation and protection against apoptosis by modification of the ECM ; ( 3 ) activation of pericytes through the release of growth factor bound to the ECM ; ( 4 ) transactivation of angiogenic cell surface receptor ; ( 5 ) propagation of angiogenic signalling as cofactor ; and ( 6 ) recruitment of bone marrow - derived stem cells .
RESULTS : 11 eyes of 11 patients were included in the study , which had a mean follow - up period of 11 months .
CONCLUSION : Immunostaining with D2 - 40 significantly increased the frequency of detection of lymphatic invasion compared to conventional H . E . - staining in early breast cancer .
TTF - 1 immunohistochemistry could focus the search for the primary tumor for patients presenting with brain metastasis as the initial manifestation .
But little is known about the characteristics of young donor - derived MSCs transplanted to old patients with AMI .
Human T - cell lymphoma virus ( HTLV ) - 1 was the first human retrovirus to be discovered .
A key factor in the response of cancer cells to chemotherapeutic drugs is the activation of the apoptotic pathway , a pathway that is often impaired in chemoresistant colon cancer cells .
These data highlight sanguinarine as a novel potential agent for bone cancer therapy .
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE : Cerebral cavernous malformations ( CCMs ) are prevalent cerebral vascular lesions involving aberrant angiogenesis .
Circulating endothelial cells in malignant disease .
However , recent observations suggest more caution in accepting such a hypothesis .
The second most prevalent urological malignancy in middle aged and elderly men is bladder cancer , with 90 % of the cases being transitional cell carcinomas .
Thus , these results together suggest that sunitinib initially exerts its apoptotic effect through the inhibition of VEGFR - 2 , which , when followed by reduction of its downstream effectors , including Akt / mTOR / S6K1 , may lead to inhibition of the antiapoptotic molecule Bcl - 2 and activation of the proapoptotic molecule BAD in PC12 cells .
Glucose catabolism in cancer cells : identification and characterization of a marked activation response of the type II hexokinase gene to hypoxic conditions .
RNA and DNA viruses can be transforming and tumourigenic agents .
Activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 through a phosphomimetic serine 727 promotes prostate tumorigenesis independent of tyrosine 705 phosphorylation .
Furthermore , Ang II stimulated sFlt - 1 production in a dose - and time - dependent manner from human villous explants and cultured trophoblasts but not from endothelial cells , suggesting that trophoblasts are the primary source of sFlt - 1 during pregnancy .
To examine the mechanism by which ethanol influences angiogenesis in wounds , we employed two different in vitro angiogenesis assays to determine whether acute ethanol exposure ( 100 mg / dl ) would have long - lasting effects on VEGF - induced capillary network formation .
Increased glucose transporter protein expression may contribute to the increased uptake of 2 - [ 18F ] - fluoro - 2 - deoxy - D - glucose ( FDG ) by these tumors observed by positron emission tomography ( PET ) imaging .
Vascularization of subcutaneous Matrigel implants as well as tumor angiogenesis were both inhibited in PECAM - 1 - null mice .
Repeated rounds of mutation , selection , and proliferation may lead to cancer .
Collagen XII is a complex multidomain protein associated with the surface of interstitial collagen fibrils .
Nevertheless , using an miR - BHRF1 - 1 and miR - BHRF1 - 3 double mutant , we could directly assess and confirm the contribution of miR - BHRF1 - 2 to B - cell transformation .
This in vitro morphogenesis was inhibited by the addition of anti - sialyl Le ( x ) / Le ( a ) or anti - beta ( 1 ) - integrin antibodies , which led to the formation of cancer cell aggregates that were independent from the F - 2 cell networks .
RESULTS : The mean sVAP - 1 level for cancer patients was significantly higher relative to controls , and decreased with disease progression .
Prospective and retrospective case - controlled experimental designs are not suitable for testing the above hypothesis .
Here , we show that the N - acetyltransferase arrest - defect 1 protein ( ARD1 ) functions as a unique AR regulator in PCa cells .
PURPOSE : The staging of colorectal cancer , therapeutic decision making in the management of early and advanced colorectal cancer , and dilemmas posed by drug - related toxicity are discussed .
Pten signaling in gliomas .
The pro - angiogenic capacities of perlecan that involve proliferative and migratory signals in response to bound growth factors will be explored , as well as the anti - angiogenic signals resulting from interactions between the C - terminal domain known as endorepellin and integrins that control adhesion of cells to the extracellular matrix .
14 - 3 - 3zeta might be used as prognostic biomarkers for NSCLC .
The aim of the present study was to investigate the specific role of TF in the esophageal cancer microenvironment .
In a first step , proteins were selected which showed a relationship to lymph node involvement .
These results show that the actin - binding domain of Abl enhances leukemia development but does not appear to be an absolute requirement for leukemogenesis .
This process is necessary for the growth and metastasis of tumors , and considerable effort is being expended to find inhibitors of tumor angiogenesis .
Prognostic value of angiogenesis in operable non - small cell lung cancer .
Mutation positive GIST showed higher frequency of adjacent tissue invasion , metastasis and recurrence as compared with mutation negative ones .
In transgenic embryos , RPE cells proliferated in the anterior part of the eye and near the optic nerve .
METHODS : Corneas of 105 rabbits were infected with viable yeast cells of C . albicans ( 2 . 5 x 10 ( 5 ) ) .
In this study , we have expressed wild - type and mutant forms of VASP in endothelial cells to determine in what aspects of cytoskeletal behavior this protein participates .
In wild - type zebrafish , meiotic cells expressed brca2 ; and , unexpectedly , transcripts in oocytes localized asymmetrically to the animal pole .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) - induced receptor phosphorylation is the crucial step for initiating downstream signaling pathways that lead to angiogenesis or related pathophysiological outcomes .
Despite the insufficient number of experimental studies , platelet - rich plasma ( PRP ) including high amounts of growth factors is introduced to clinical use rapidly .
Therefore , this enhancing effect does not result from an idiosyncrasy of the EBV genome but rather reflects a general property of these miRNAs .
Vascular endothelial growth factor - C ( VEGF - C ) plays a crucial role in lymphangiogenesis , and is implicated to play an important role in lymph node metastasis .
The rationale was that the heparin derivative , which binds to sulfated polyanion receptors on endothelial cells , should concentrate the steroid on the surface of vascular endothelial cells .
It is clear that this cycle functions optimally in skin of dark pigmentation .
CONCLUSIONS : We have shown that patients with PDR have a lower coronary collateral score than patients without DR .
Atypically , abundant capillaries were observed ; however , the cystic proliferation of epithelioid cells with vacuoles and immunohistochemical profile of the epithelioid element were consistent with hepatic adenomatoid tumour .
Overexpression of c - Ski inhibited TGF - beta signaling in OCUM - 2MLN cells .
A small peptide derived from Flt - 1 ( VEGFR - 1 ) functions as an angiogenic inhibitor .
The low metastatic and G - 418 - resistant H - 3 cells were co - cultured with BALB / c3T3 fibroblasts for 2 - 4 weeks .
Both groups believe that pulp revascularization and regeneration will be viable treatment modalities in the future .
Using a murine incisional wound healing model this study was carried out to investigate the roles of estrogen and progesterone on macrophage activation during the wound healing response .
We found that GSE could directly inhibit the kinase activity of purified VEGF receptor 2 , a novel activity of GSE that has not been characterized .
Multivariate analysis showed that this profile was independently the most significant prognostic factor ( P = 0 . 001 ) .
This induction of Ets - 1 could be reproduced in in vivo denudation of rat aortic endothelium by a balloon catheter .
Finally , we identified FGF13 as a new prognostic marker that predicted poorer outcome in patients who were clinically considered free from disease .
Actin - sequestering protein , thymosin beta - 4 , is a novel hypoxia responsive regulator .
The later expression of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 in fibroblasts suggests a role in extracellular matrix remodeling .
Cancer cells are different from normal cells in their metabolic properties .
FPR and the piperazine derivatives caused suppression of angiogenesis and in combination with thrombin antagonized its angiogenic effect .
Tumour - specific distribution of BRCA1 promoter region methylation supports a pathogenetic role in breast and ovarian cancer .
Some human cancer cells have been found to overexpress eph mRNAs without gene amplification .
Partial tissue oxygen tension ( PtO ( 2 ) ) was measured with polarographic microprobes ; epithelial metabolism was monitored by microdialysis inside the TET epithelium perfused with the medium underneath .
Activation of the canonical WNT / TCF pathway is identified here as a determinant of metastasis to brain and bone during lung adenocarcinoma progression .
In the embryonic stem cells homozygous for these hypomorphic Apc alleles , the level of the APC protein was inversely correlated with both the beta - catenin accumulation and beta - catenin / T - cell factor transcriptional activity .
A 4 . 0 kb mRNA of the murine UFO homolog is expressed in a variety of different mouse tissues .
Thus , UV - induced Erbb2 activation increases skin tumorigenesis through inhibitory phosphorylation of Chk1 , Cdc25a maintenance , and suppression of S - phase arrest via a PI3K / Akt - dependent mechanism .
We have found that LPA downregulates tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases ( TIMPs ) .
We conclude that increased PAI - 1 antigen levels may be associated with a decreased survival in patients with SCC .
Hormonal regulation and distinct functions of semaphorin - 3B and semaphorin - 3F in ovarian cancer .
Mitochondrial complex II , or succinate dehydrogenase , is a key enzymatic complex involved in both the tricarboxylic acid ( TCA ) cycle and oxidative phosphorylation as part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain .
Finally , we demonstrated that direct inhibition of key enzymes to glycogen metabolism and pentose phosphate pathways reduced HUVEC viability and migration .
The results of LDH5 expression were correlated to clinico - pathological data as well as to patient ' s survival .
Furthermore , treatment of immunocompetent mice in the spontaneous lung metastases model with rAAV2 / 5 - VAS after primary tumor excision prolonged their median survival from 21 to 51 . 5 days .
Thirty - two genes were selected encoding molecules involved in endothelial cell activation , particularly fibrinolysis , vascular tone , OS , angiogenesis and also inflammation .
Elevated c - src expression with angiotensin system inhibition may act to enhance intimal wound closure and to reduce luminal thrombogenicity in vivo .
The candidate tumour suppressor protein ING4 regulates brain tumour growth and angiogenesis .
Staining was effected by the standard avidin - biotin horseradish peroxidase system .
Induced over - and under - expression of these genes has been used to demonstrate their affect on some aspects of hematopoiesis and leukemogenesis .
Anti - Fas treatment resulted in decreased p53 protein levels , while bcl - 2 and bax protein levels remained unaffected .
Thus , p21 coupled p53 - dependent checkpoint control and preservation of chromosomal stability , and cooperated with apoptosis in suppressing tumor onset in mice .
It is proposed that these proteins be called , respectively , p40xI and p37xII .
Outcomes measures included transcutaneous blood gas levels , histology , total RNA content and analysis of alpha2 ( I ) collagen ( COL - I ) , type IV collagen ( COL - IV ) , alpha1 ( V ) collagen ( COL - V ) , and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression using real - time quantitative PCR .
After confirming the results in agar - processed cell lines , annexin II and beta ( 2 ) - tubulin expression were found to be lower in tumor cells than in adjacent normal epithelial cells in 100 % and 90 % of the patients ' specimens , respectively .
In this study we separated weakly acidic phenolic components from other neutral , acidic and basic components of tobacco smoke condensate ( TSC ) and observed that phenolic fraction of TSC significantly increased the number of colonies of promotion - sensitive JB6 Cl41 cells that showed anchorage - independent growth on soft agar in response to BPDE ( an ultimate carcinogen produced by metabolic activation of the PAH benzo [ a ] pyrene ) .
Invasion is the hallmark of tumor malignancy .
On the contrary , there was intense staining for HER2 on the basolateral membrane of epithelial cells of intestinal metaplasia ( 22 / 24 ; 91 . 7 % ) and carcinoma in situ ( 9 / 10 ; 90 % ) , the lesions that displayed a significantly high proliferation index .
When BB - 94 , a matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor , was added to the culture medium of Ras - expressing cells , it caused a cell aggregation phenotype similar to that caused by TEL expression .
Promoter hypermethylation of APC was observed in 54 . 65 per cent ( 47 of 86 ) of cases .
It has also been demonstrated that MTSS1 is involved in the Shh signaling pathway in the developing hair follicle and in basal cell carcinomas of the skin .
This observation indicates that VCSA expression at the cell surface is likely to be the result of the interaction between the viral src gene product pp60src with host cell gene ( s ) or gene product ( s ) , rather than the simple expression of this molecule at the cell surface .
Interventional strategies showed that existing therapeutic modalities for asthma , such as inhaled corticosteroids , were sufficient to block the enhanced pulmonary recruitment of cancer cells from circulation .
VEGF - A ( 165 ) mainly contributes to increased serum VEGF levels and may serve as a diagnostic tool in advanced - stage neuroblastoma .
Finally , dynamic host - to - graft interactions - - including phagocytic migration , astrocytic hypertrophy and infiltration within the grafts , and angiogenesis - - are features that constitute the structural integration of primary skin fibroblasts grafted within the adult rat central nervous system .
TTF - 1 staining was present in 31 of the 40 ( 78 % ) metastatic lung carcinomas , but in only 1 of the 31 ( 3 % ) metastatic nonpulmonary carcinomas ( a small - cell carcinoma of the sinonasal tract ) .
RESULTS : There was no significant difference in the median PE level between AML / MDS patients and the normal controls .
GM - CSF or IL - 2 vaccines or gammaIFN decreased tumor nodules significantly ( GM - CSF 13 + / - 4 , IL - 2 14 + / - 6 vs . control 75 + / - 24 , P < 0 . 001 ) .
In vivo nuclear magnetic resonance analysis of tumor blood flow in linomide - treated animals showed localization of blood vessels almost exclusively to the periphery of the poorly vascularized tumors with a significant reduction of both vascular functionality and vasodilation .
These findings are potentially clinically relevant , because HMGA2 expression is reported to be upregulated in a number of human cancers as telomere maintenance is essential for tumorigenesis .
Zebrafish Robo4 rescues both Rho GTPase homeostasis and serum reduced chemotaxis in robo4 knockdown cells .
Levels of RNA for tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases ( TIMP - 1 , TIMP - 2 ) were relatively constant , suggesting independent regulation of type IV collagenases and their inhibitors .
Transduction of BMSVTs with hTERT resulted in immortalization of 4 out of 4 cultures .
Thalidomide had no direct effect on endothelial cells .
Using univariate analysis , the S - 100beta level and metastatic profile were found to be statistically significant prognostic factors for survival .
Both levels of dietary CLA showed similar effects , with the number of RBC - containing vessels per 20x field decreased to a third of that seen in control .
Increasing evidence suggests that EMT plays a specific role in the migration of cells from a primary tumor into the circulation and may provide a rationale for developing more effective cancer therapies .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , one of the most potent angiogenic factors , stimulates endothelial cell proliferation and induces the angiogenesis .
The B ( 1 ) R distribution pattern mirrored that of HER2 except that B ( 1 ) R was additionally observed in the adenomas .
No significant differences between the two groups were observed in tumor size , gender , age , histology , differentiation or preoperative therapy .
Finally , annexin II down - regulation was positively associated with lymph node metastasis , suggesting that it may be a prognostic factor in NPC .
Low density lipoprotein receptor - related protein - 1 ( LRP - 1 ) is a catabolic receptor for extracellular matrix ( ECM ) structural proteins and for proteins that bind to ECM .
Finally , anti - p53 monoclonal antibodies only slightly affected in vitro phosphorylation reactions , whereas a p53 molecule from a simian virus 40 - free , chemically transformed human cell line was not phosphorylated in vitro under any condition tested .
The induction occurs within 1 h from FGF - 2 treatment and is mediated by ERK1 / 2 pathway , which in turn stimulates expression of the early growth response - 1 ( Egr - 1 ) transcription factor .
Metastasis - associated 5T4 antigen disrupts cell - cell contacts and induces cellular motility in epithelial cells .
When tumor cells possessed a high level of UK , laminin and type IV collagen , components of the basement membrane , disappeared from tumor tissues .
The development of the corpus luteum ( CL ) , which involves angiogenesis , is essential for the establishment of early pregnancy .
Because poor skin wound healing associated with diabetes is thought to be partly a result from impaired angiogenesis , treatments that improve angiogenesis could have important clinical applications .
A STAT3 - mediated metabolic switch is involved in tumour transformation and STAT3 addiction .
Overexpression confers an oncogenic potential upon the eph gene .
These HCC cell lines had a similar genetic background but with an increasing potential of metastasis .
These data support a possible role for tumor cell TGF - beta in the progression of mammary carcinomas by suppressing host immune surveillance .
The necessity of Crk in ephrin - B1 - induced membrane ruffling was shown both by the overexpression of dominant negative Crk mutants and by the depletion of Crk by using RNA interference .
Arteriogenesis : the development and growth of collateral arteries .
While TSP - 2 deficiency did not affect tumor differentiation or proliferation , tumor cell apoptosis was significantly reduced .
Recently , significant improvements in survival have been achieved through the use of combination chemotherapy and monoclonal antibody regimens .
CONCLUSIONS : Intravitreal bevacizumab can be used to treat radiation retinopathy .
RESULTS : The control group showed the highest level of corneal clouding and neovascularization .
Ectopic decorin expression up - regulates VEGF expression in mouse cerebral endothelial cells via activation of the transcription factors Sp1 , HIF1alpha , and Stat3 .
However , little is known about the function of AQPs in human breast cancer .
RESULTS : The bone grafts were found revascularization in 3 days after surgery in the test group , whereas at 2 weeks in the control group .
One cell line ( ESM - 1 ) derived from the erythrophores transfected with src / myc grew successively over nine months , indicating its acquisition of immortality .
Inhibition of autophagy potentiates the antitumor effect of the multikinase inhibitor sorafenib in hepatocellular carcinoma .
BACKGROUND : Roundabouts are axon guidance molecules that have recently been identified to play a role in vascular guidance as well .
The cortex within 100 microns of the capsule had little vascularization .
Domain 5 ( D5 ) of cleaved high molecular weight kininogen ( HKa ) inhibits angiogenesis in vivo and endothelial cell migration in vitro , but the cell signaling pathways involved in HKa and D5 inhibition of endothelial cell migration are incompletely delineated .
Pharmacologic agents have been identified that target these pathways , yet for some agents ( notably thalidomide ) , an understanding of the specific mechanisms of antitumor action has proved elusive .
Postoperative progression of pulmonary metastasis in osteosarcoma .
To better understand the intracellular signaling pathways , we examined the effect of HKa on the phosphorylation of Akt and its downstream effector , GSK - 3alpha HKa and D5 inhibit phosphorylation of Akt and GSK - 3alpha after stimulation withVEGF and S1P .
Using a Matrigel plug - based model , in vivo angiogenesis was restricted with STX243 and STX140 ( 50 and 72 % , respectively , using a 10 mg kg ( - 1 ) oral dose ) , thereby showing the antiangiogenic activity of both compounds .
This is primarily based on limited in vitro studies on tumor cells derived from transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder that revealed a dose - and time - dependent inhibition of cell growth by ciprofloxacin at concentrations that are easily attainable in the urine of patients .
[ Study of fungus polysaccharides compounds ( FPC ) in inducing the apoptosis of liver cancer cell Bel - 7402 ] .
We previously described the isolation of non - tumorigenic revertants from mutagenized populations of v - fos - transformed Rat - 1 cells ( Zarbl et al . , 1987 ) .
Membrane - anchored Cbl suppresses Hck protein - tyrosine kinase mediated cellular transformation .
We observed a significantly increased risk of lymph node metastasis associated with the FAS - 1377 GA or AA polymorphism [ odds ratio ( OR ) = 4 . 16 , 95 % confidence interval ( CI ) = 1 . 10 to 15 . 74 ; P = 0 . 036 ] .
The interaction of VEGF and its receptors at gene and protein levels in neuroblastoma remains widely unknown .
Ki - 67 labeling index ( LI ) was calculated , based on Ki - 67 antigen immunostaining , as a proliferative marker .
Surgical specimens from 20 cases of OSCC with lymph node metastasis , 20 cases of OSCC without lymph node metastasis , and 10 cases of normal mucosa were examined by immunohistochemistry .
Transformation - associated cytokine 9E3 / CEF4 is chemotactic for chicken peripheral blood mononuclear cells .
METHOD : Wild - type and phosphatase - inactive ( C124A ) PTEN plasmids were transfected into ovarian epithelial cancer A2780 cells , and their effects on cell apoptosis , cell proliferation , cell migration and cell invasion were analyzed by flow cytometry analysis , TUNEL assay , MTT assay , wound - healing assay and transwell assay .
Some potentially promising prognostic , diagnostic , and therapeutic modalities for tumor angiogenesis and metastatic disease are also discussed .
The beneficial effect of IL - 1Ra on most islet endothelial / OS / immune cells / fibrosis parameters analyzed highlights a major endothelial - related role for IL - 1 in GK islet alterations .
Efficacy was demonstrated particularly for chronic synovitis and pain and no serious adverse events occurred .
Cooccurrence of reduced expression of alpha - catenin and overexpression of p53 is a predictor of lymph node metastasis in early gastric cancer .
However , diameters of intratumoral microvessels were smaller in tumors grown in Ang - 2 - deficient mice , and the vasculature had an altered pattern of pericyte recruitment and maturation .
Reconstitution of MCF - 7 cells by stable transfection of CASP - 3 cDNA restores all these defects and results in an extensive apoptosis after cisplatin treatment .
RESULTS : PCR and chimeric BMP - 2 and BMP - 4 luciferase assays demonstrate that NF - kappaB confers robust and selective activation of BMP - 2 in p65 overexpressing or rhTNF - alpha - stimulated PC cells .
Radiosensitization by 2 - DG in monolayer cells was primarily due to an increase in mitotic death ( 23 % ) linked to cytogenetic damage ( micronuclei ) , whereas a profound induction of apoptosis ( 40 % ) accounted for the sensitization in spheroids .
BACKGROUND : Breast cancers have higher than normal glucose metabolism , but the mechanism of glucose entry into these tumors is not well understood .
The increased expression of MMP - 9 was also shown in CNE1 - GL cells by Western blot analysis .
Under normal conditions insulin regulates expression of hexokinase Type II isoenzyme , which is predominantly expressed in muscle .
A prefabricated composite fat flap consisting of muscle woven into an anatomically distinct fat pad was studied in a rabbit model .
Furthermore , there is strong evidence suggesting that aberrant activation of Wnt signaling induces mammary tumors from stem / progenitor cells , and that Wnt exerts its oncogenic effects through LRP5 / 6 - mediated activation of beta - catenin and mTOR pathways .
Members of the Runx and MYC families have been implicated as collaborating oncogenes .
Nuclear factor - kappaB ( NF - kappaB ) activation contributes to the development of metastasis , thus leading to a poor prognosis in many cancers , including OSCC .
These results may have chemotherapeutic implications for using emodin to target HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing cancer cells .
The age and oral habits of patients , as well as the tumor site and size , did not appear to be correlated with h - MVD or VEGF immunoreactivity .
DNA damage induces a novel p53 - survivin signaling pathway regulating cell cycle and apoptosis in acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells .
The cells were labeled with luciferase , a bioluminescence imaging reporter gene , to enable optical imaging .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : Urine from 81 patients with RDEB ( 39 patients ) , junctional epidermolysis bullosa ( JEB ; 12 patients ) , and epidermolysis bullosa simplex ( EBS ; 30 patients ) , as well as unaffected family members of RDEB patients ( 33 patients ) , was tested for the presence of basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) using a sensitive radioimmunoassay .
To evaluate the ability of AdCMV . VEGF165 to function in vivo , either AdCMV .
Eleven genes were identified whose expression changed significantly in response to carcinogen treatment .
Various cellular kinases , among them members of the CK1 family , play an important role in modulating the transforming activity of SV40 , including the transforming activity of T - Ag , the major transforming protein of SV40 , itself .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : In the present study , we investigated the effects of 2ME2 alone and in combination with paclitaxel , an active agent in recurrent or advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
Most of the studies focusing on the mechanisms of p53 activity have been performed in cultured cells upon treatment with well - established p53 - activating inputs , such as high doses of radiations , DNA - damaging drugs and activated oncogenes .
After inhibition of gluconeogenesis , the plasma glucose decreased and the blood lactate increased significantly more in TB than NTB animals .
The tumors of A431 supplemented with F - 2 cells were profoundly vascularized throughout by the tubular structures formed by F - 2 cells , the lumen of which contained the host rat blood cells .
RESULTS : VEGF isoforms and its receptors ' mRNA were expressed in neuroblastoma and control tissues .
However , it is unclear whether sunitinib acts only through an antiangiogenic mechanism or whether it may also directly target tumor cells .
Recently VEGF - B and VEGF - C , two new VEGF family members , have been identified that bind to the tyrosine kinase receptors flt - 1 ( VEGFR1 ) , KDR ( VEGFR2 ) , and flt - 4 ( VEGFR3 ) .
The resulting clusters were correlated to patients with or without lymph node involvement .
BACKGROUND : Recently , the desmoplastic reaction has been implicated as having an important function in epithelial solid tumor biology .
Topo I expression in paired primary lymph node metastases were studied for concordance .
Microenvironments have been highly implicated in the malignancy of mammary tumors .
The activation of Na + transport is due to the exchange of protons formed via glucose conversion into lactate for Na + , i . e . , to the stimulation of the Na + / H + - antiport .
Roles of cell adhesion molecules mediating the interaction of cancer and endothelial cells in tumor angiogenesis were investigated using new in vitro and in vivo model systems with a cultured murine endothelial cell line ( F - 2 ) and human cultured epidermoid cancer cells ( A431 ) .
To assess the lymphoid tumorigenic potential of bcl - 2 , mice of five independent strains expressing a bcl - 2 transgene in B and / or T cells were monitored for disease up to 12 months of age .
The aptamer - induced dimerization and inactivation of M2 - PK led to a significant decrease in the PK mass - action ratio as well as ATP : ADP ratio in the target cells .
TESTING THE HYPOTHESIS : Stimulation of dormant micrometastases by primary tumor removal is known to occur in animal models .
Binding of factor VIIa ( FVIIa ) to its cellular receptor tissue factor ( TF ) was previously shown to induce various intracellular signaling events , which were thought to be responsible for TF - mediated biologic effects , including angiogenesis , tumor metastasis , and restenosis .
Jun N terminal kinase ( JNK1 ) and p38 kinase are activated by a variety of stress stimuli .
These transcripts were localized in stromal fibroblasts adjacent to the neoplastic foci .
BACKGROUND : Neurotrophins mediate their effects by binding to members of the Trk family of receptor tyrosine kinases and to the low - affinity nerve growth factor receptor p75 .
We investigated the mechanism by which ephrin - B1 promotes membrane ruffling in human aortic endothelial cells , because membrane ruffling heralds cell body migration .
There are limited mouse models for the BMP signaling SMADs ( BR - SMADs ) 1 , 5 , and 8 because of embryonic lethality and suspected genetic redundancy .
Polyethylene glycol - superoxide dismutase ( PEG - SOD ) markedly inhibited both the increases in VEGF expression and the proliferative effects of 20 - HETE .
These may be associated with plant based anti - inflammatory effects , The phytochemistry and pharmacological actions of all Punica granatum components suggest a wide range of clinical applications for the treatment and prevention of cancer , as well as other diseases where chronic inflammation is believed to play an essential etiologic role .
For verifying apoptosis , both DNA Fragmentation by ELISA assay and caspase 3 / 7 activity measurement were used .
Fas - signaling and effects on receptor tyrosine kinase signal transduction in human breast epithelial cells .
Protein up - regulation of HER2 in the epithelium with metaplasia or carcinoma in situ was not accompanied by HER2 gene amplification .
In groups 1 & 2 , hindlimb ischemia was induced by ligation of femoral artery and they received L - NIL and saline respectively .
[ ( 18 ) F ] deoxyglucose uptake correlates with glucose transporter ( GLUT - 1 ) expression , which can be regulated by hypoxia - inducible factor 1 alpha ( HIF - 1alpha ) .
Furthermore , ARD1 interacted physically with and acetylated the AR protein in vivo and in vitro .
VEGF and COL - IV levels were found to be significantly higher for pattern A ( 110 mus pulse width ) compared to pattern B ( 5 mus pulse width ) at 14 days , implying that pattern A may be more effective at promoting angiogenesis .
In the pathologic analysis of the abdominal wounds , there was no statistically significant difference between any of the groups , including the control group , regarding inflammation .
We have investigated the expression of osteonectin gene in fresh BALB / c fibroblasts transformed by v - Ki - ras .
The dominant view is that neutrophils display exclusively antitumor properties .
Vascular proliferation and enhanced expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase in human peritoneum exposed to long - term peritoneal dialysis .
These effects of alpha - MSH may have important regulatory functions in extracellular matrix composition , wound healing , or angiogenesis .
Aberrantly activated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 ( Stat3 ) is implicated in the development of various human cancers .
Mutations in the genes encoding the three other succinate dehydrogenase subunits ( SDHB , SDHC and SDHD ) have been identified in patients affected by familial or ' apparently sporadic ' paraganglioma and / or pheochromocytoma , an autosomal inherited cancer - susceptibility syndrome .
After incubation for 4 days , the medium from the coculture system is collected .
Homeobox genes in hematopoiesis and leukemogenesis .
Once in position , these cells coalesce and form cords , which lumenize and become ensheathed by supporting pericytes and smooth muscle cells .
Hepatomas exhibiting this phenotype are dependent on the high expression of type II hexokinase , which supplies such tumors with abundant amounts of glucose 6 - phosphate , a significant carbon and energy source especially under hypoxic conditions .
Effects of morphological patterning on endothelial cell migration .
After tumor implantation the animals were examined weekly during several months for the appearance of metastases .
It is also clear that diffusible angiogenic stimuli can be released not only from most solid tumors , but also from at least three non - neoplastic cells .
Promoter region hypermethylation was significantly more common ( P < 0 . 008 ) in breast and ovarian cancer ( 6 / 38 tumours methylated ) than in colon cancer ( 0 / 35 tumours methylated ) or in leukaemias ( 0 / 19 samples methylated ) .
[ Expression of metastasis suppressor gene nm23 in human hepatocellular carcinoma ] .
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES : Even though the pathological background contributes to lymph node metastasis , the biological characteristics of tumors have also gained wide attention .
TGFbeta1 was initially identified in culture media from transformed cells as part of a factor that could produce a transformed phenotype in a nontransformed cell line .
In damaged and inflamed tissue , LL - 37 functions as a chemoattractant , mitogen and pro - angiogenic factor suggesting that the peptide may potentiate tumor progression .
There was also a statistically significant difference regarding fibrosis between groups 1 and 4 .
Clusterin expression level depends on cell proliferation state , and we recently showed that its over - expression inhibited cell cycle progression of SV40 - immortalized human prostate epithelial cells PNT2 and PNT1a .
The VEGF system represents a key mediator of tumor - initiated angiogenesis and the first target of antiangiogenesis agents introduced in clinical practice .
Combined topical fluconazole and corticosteroid treatment for experimental Candida albicans keratomycosis .
CONCLUSIONS : Irreversible PHT is strongly associated with impaired endothelial cell apoptosis and antiapoptotic signaling from perivascular inflammatory cells .
Another marker being investigated in the context of vascular dysfunction and coagulopathy is the endothelial microparticle ( EMP ) .
Hyperfibrinogenemia ( > 310 mg / dl ) was independently associated with lymph node ( Odds Ratio ; 2 . 342 , P = 0 . 0032 ) and liver ( Odds Ratio ; 2 . 933 , P = 0 . 0147 ) metastasis , not with peritoneal metastasis in this series .
IGF - 1 enhances cell proliferation and survival .
This growth factor system exerts multiple physiologic effects on the vasculature through both endocrine and autocrine / paracrine mechanisms .
Recently , genetic abnormalities in the elements of the Thyrotropin receptor ( TSH - R ) dependent cAMP regulatory cascade have been found to be involved both in benign and malignant thyroid tumours .
Furthermore , suppression of NF - kappaB activation decreased the transcript levels and BMP - 2 - induced phosphorylation of Smad1 / 5 / 8 , critical downstream targets of BMP - 2 signaling in PC cells .
Treatment of NIH3T3 / KDR cells with TKI - 31 blocked VEGF - induced phosphorylation of KDR in a dose - dependent manner .
Inhibition of NO synthase by L - NAME might induce an anti - tumour effect by limiting nutrients and oxygen to reach tumour tissue or affecting vascular growth .
BACKGROUND : The anabolic properties of insulin have been suggested for use to reverse malnutrition associated with cancer .
Along these same lines , TTF - 1 staining might prove useful in localizing the tumor origin of adenocarcinomas encountered outside of the lung .
Interestingly , both constitutively active and kinase - inactive Hck interact with and are targeted for degradation by Cbl .
FM - MSC were obtained from Lewis rats and had surface antigen expression and multipotent potential partly similar to those of BM - MSC .
Cytotoxic concentrations of cisplatin , etoposide , doxorubicin or peplomycin ( tentatively termed as Group I compounds ) , but not methotrexate and 5 - FU ( tentatively termed as Group II compounds ) , enhanced the cytotoxic activity of NaF .
These results suggest that non - thrombogenic agonists or antagonists of the activated thrombin receptor can be used as modulators of angiogenesis .
Treatment of these T - cells with 5 - azacytidine resulted in the induction of DR surface antigen expression , the appearance of DR alpha mRNA , and the partial demethylation of the DR alpha DNA sequences .
Polyphenols are natural antioxidants that are thought to contribute to prevention of cardiovascular disease and malignancy .
This study suggests that the expression of HSP27 is frequently promoted in patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma and should be considered an independent prognostic factor of oral squamous cell carcinoma patients .
Clinical , laboratory , histopathological , and pharmacological evidence support the notion that the coagulation system , which is activated in most cancer patients , plays an important role in tumor biology .
These results highlight the importance of selenoperoxidase action in the glutathione cycle as a means by which tumor cells cope with hydroperoxide stress .
Angiogenin is up - regulated in the nucleus and cytoplasm in human primary breast carcinoma and is associated with markers of hypoxia but not survival .
BACKGROUND : Vascular adhesion protein - 1 ( VAP - 1 ) regulates leukocyte tissue infiltration .
Anagen - associated angiogenesis offers an attractive model for identifying the physiologic controls of cutaneous angiogenesis , and an interesting system for screening the effects of potential antiangiogenic drugs in vivo .
Dietary conjugated linoleic acid ( CLA ) has been shown previously to inhibit rat mammary carcinogenesis .
Highly sensitive reverse - transcription polymerase chain reaction identifies an induction and overexpression of a type II - like tumor HK RNA in a range of cancer cell lines irrespective of tissue origin .
Angiogenesis has become an attractive target for drug therapy because of its key role in tumor growth .
In conclusion , 14 - 3 - 3zeta and beta - catenin might have an important role in development , progression and metastatic process of NSCLC .
At univariate analysis , overexpression of c - erbB2 did not affect either DFS or OAS ; tamoxifen had a greater effect on reducing the risk of recurrence than of death .
CXCR4 transcripts and proteins were detectable in all five gastric cancer cell lines .
Ovarian cancer is a highly metastatic disease .
Papilloma formation was observed in both the DMBA - TPA - and DMBA - Cum - OOH - exposed animals , whereas skin carcinomas were found only in the DMBA - Cum - OOH - treated mice .
Hyperfibrinogenemia is associated with lymphatic as well as hematogenous metastasis and worse clinical outcome in T2 gastric cancer .
VM is critical for a tumor blood supply and is asscociated with aggressive features and metastasis .
Furthermore , the expression of M2 - PK - binding peptide aptamers moderately reduced the growth of immortalized NIH3T3 cell populations by decelerating cell proliferation , but without affecting apoptotic cell death .
The ACIS index , using a cutoff point defined by the median value , < or = 3 % versus > 3 % , was related to 5 - year DM rates in univariate analyses ( 32 . 6 % vs . 45 . 8 % ; P = 0 . 057 ) and MVA ( P = 0 . 06 ) .
The specific CD47 - activating peptide , 4N1K , similarly induced cell death in human brain microvascular endothelial cells .
Matrix metalloproteinase activity and immunohistochemical profile of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 during human dermal wound healing .
The disease progressed in 8 patients , despite an initial response .
These results demonstrate that functional collaboration exists between p18 and Men1 and suggest that Men1 may regulate additional factor ( s ) that interact with p18 and p27 differently .
Pathological analyses indicate that a significant large population of human ductal cancers may utilize the EGFR - GEP100 - Arf6 - AMAP1 pathway for their malignancy .
The [ 18F ] FDG uptake in muscle and the whole body glucose use during euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp were compared with those of weight - matched healthy subjects studied under similar circumstances .
This hypothesis was tested using the 2G7 IgG2b , which neutralizes TGF - beta 1 , - beta 2 , and - beta 3 , and the MDA - 231 human breast cancer cell line .
These findings suggest that PA through protease cascade plays a role in tumor invasion and metastasis .
BACKGROUND : Survivin is a novel inhibitor of apoptosis commonly detected in tissues during fetal development and in cancer , but not usually in normal tissues .
Presumably , glycolysis is one of the regulatory mechanisms of intracellular ratios of monovalent cations .
PURPOSE : Neovascularization has profound effects on tumor growth and metastasis .
Tumour angiogenesis is an important factor for tumour growth and metastasis .
AngiomiRs - - key regulators of angiogenesis .
Enhanced DNA - binding activity of a Stat3 - related protein in cells transformed by the Src oncoprotein .
Homeostasis of the extracellular matrix is a delicate balance between degradation and remodeling , the balance being maintained by the interaction of activated matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) and specific tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases ( TIMPs ) .
Up - regulation of fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 ( FGFR2 ) , which showed the most significant change , was detected in all six tested TFs compared with their paired normal fibroblasts .
Microvessel density ( MVD ) was determined by counting microvessels in tumor sections stained for Factor VIII - related antigen .
Our results indicate that the nuclear phosphatase activity is inhibited by greater than 50 % in Galpha ( 12 ) QL cells compared to vector control cells .
Hypoxia - inducible factor 1 ( HIF - 1 ) activates vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) gene expression in hypoxic / ischemic tissue .
Ras - association domain family 1C protein promotes breast cancer cell migration and attenuates apoptosis .
Statistically significant differences were observed regarding angiogenesis between the control group and groups 3 and 4 .
Since the intrinsic resistance of prostate carcinoma likely reflects a low susceptibility to drug - induced apoptosis , in this study we explored the possibility of sensitizing prostate carcinoma cells to apoptosis by combination of TRAIL with camptothecins .
METHODS : The invasion , apoptosis and levels of uPA , MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 were determined by invasion assay , flow cytometry , Western blot and real - time fluorescence quantitative PCR respectively .
As coronary artery disease is the major cause of death in the developed societies and also an emerging health problem in developing countries like Bangladesh therapeutic angiogenesis may provide hope as a new treatment modality for ischemic heart disease with or in place of current therapies .
The initial wave of ERK activity ( 5 - 120 min ) was refractory to integrin antagonists , whereas the sustained activity ( 4 - 20 h ) depended on integrin alphavbeta3 , but not beta1 integrins .
The neural stem cell fate determinant TLX promotes tumorigenesis and genesis of cells resembling glioma stem cells .
The expression of HLA - DR was correlated with the histologic type .
Telomere / telomerase interplay in virus - driven and virus - independent lymphomagenesis : pathogenic and clinical implications .
In this study , the expression of the cadherin - catenin complex and p53 was studied in early gastric cancer .
BACKGROUND & # 38 ; OBJECTIVE : It has been proved that Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) latent membrane protein 1 ( EBV - LMP1 ) can induce the expression of matrix metalloproteinase - 9 ( MMP - 9 ) .
The effect of angiopoietin 1 depends on the tumour model .
It was found that wild - type ( wt ) SVLT strongly inhibited the terminal differentiation of mouse C2 myoblasts , but this arrest occurred only after the synthesis of myogenin , an initial step in biochemical differentiation .
Therefore , understanding these signaling mechanisms may provide us with novel ways to develop strategies for treating clinical diseases induced by these cytokines .
There was a significant correlation between loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 expression and upregulation of c - myc .
Induction of gelatinases ( matrix metalloproteinase 2 and 9 ) , the serine protease tissue plasminogen activator and plasmin by DCN transfection in MCE cells leads to extracellular proteolysis and to release of matrix - bound VEGF and activation of angiogenesis .
These results suggest that C / EBPbeta may be a marker of neoplastic transformation and also play an active role in gastric tumourigenesis by regulating COX - 2 expression .
However , as yet , there is no genetic evidence for a role of autophagy genes in tumor suppression .
The average latency of leukemia induction was shorter for the erbA / myb IRES virus ( 3 . 5 weeks ) than for the erbA IRES virus ( 5 weeks ) .
However , the mechanism by which E7 contributes to cellular transformation is unknown .
The ectodomains and heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycan chains of syndecans can also act as receptors / co - receptors for some bacterial and viral pathogens , mediating infection .
The endostatin level in serum was determined by ELISA .
The data suggest that various metastasis profiles exist .
We propose that this novel , central metabolic role is at the core of the addiction for STAT3 shown by so many biologically different tumours .
PURPOSE : Antiangiogenic therapy is considered as an effective strategy for controlling the growth and metastasis of tumors .
RESULTS : Insulin increased VEGF mRNA levels in the ganglion , inner nuclear , and RPE cell layers .
Increased urokinase plasminogen activator ( uPA ) levels are increased in a number of malignancies and have been correlated with decreased disease - free interval and decreased overall survival .
This transporter was expressed on the cell membrane and in the cytoplasm of the tumor cells , but exhibited marked intratumoral and intertumoral variability in the proportions of positive cells and the intensity of staining .
One limitation of these approaches , however , may be the failure to normalize myocardial perfusion , due to the concomitant presence or small of resistance vessel disease .
RESULTS : MCT 1 and 2 were the primary isoforms expressed in human glioblastoma multiforme and glioma - derived cell lines .
Microvascular density and vascular endothelial growth factor immunoreactivity as predictors of regional lymph node metastasis from betel - associated oral squamous cell carcinoma .
The anti - apoptotic protein c - FLIP ( cellular Flice - like inhibitory protein ) , which has been shown to inhibit Fas - mediated apoptosis at the DISC , was down - regulated following AdGFPFasL ( TET ) treatment prompting us to investigate its role in inhibiting CH - 11 - induced cell death .
Further , the overexpression of 14 - 3 - 3zeta correlated with histological grades , lymph node metastasis and poor clinical outcome .
VEGF immunoreactivity was positive in 75 . 5 % of samples .
After staining samples for alpha - SMA , their expression was extracted and quantified as a relative percentage by computer - assisted image analysis .
Large amounts of cytosolic NADH were oxidized by the mitochondrial respiratory chain via the NADH shuttle , comprising anywhere from about 20 to 80 % of the total flow of reducing equivalents to oxygen in these tumors .
The antiangiogenic agent linomide inhibits the growth rate of von Hippel - Lindau paraganglioma xenografts to mice .
Systemic administration of VEGF or LPS in adult mice resulted in cyclosporine A - sensitive reactivation of the DSCR1s promoter and endogenous gene expression in a subset of organs , including the heart and brain .
Cytogenetic examination of Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) p21 ( - / - ) sarcomas and lymphomas revealed aneuploidy and chromosomal aberrations that were absent in Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) malignancies .
Simian virus 40 large T antigen and two independent T - antigen segments sensitize cells to apoptosis following genotoxic damage .
Antiapoptotic effect of coagulation factor VIIa .
The ' angiostatic ' steroids 17 hydroxyprogesterone and epicortisol were tested because of their lack of glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid effects and their structural similarity to glucocorticoids .
This dual activity , together with the initiation of signal transduction pathways by uPAR , is believed to influence cellular behaviour in angiogenesis , inflammation , wound repair and tumor progression / metastasis and open up the way for uPAR - based therapeutic approaches .
The lack of treatment for worried - well patients with high - grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia combined with issues of recurrence and hormone resistance in prostate cancer survivors remains a major public health obstacle .
It is now known that specific types of human papillomaviruses ( HPV ) are the principal etiologic agents for both cervical cancer and its precursors .
Vasodilator - stimulated phosphoprotein ( VASP ) is highly expressed in vascular endothelial cells , where it has been implicated in cellular reorganization during angiogenesis , as well as in endothelial retraction and changes in vessel permeability .
The results of our current studies provide strong experimental evidence for the use of ciprofloxacin as a potential preventive and / or therapeutic agent for the management of transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder .
Furthermore , we determined the ability of U - 995 to inhibiting tumor cell growth and metastasis .
Monitoring peroxide - induced changes in GSH and GSSG gave consistent results ; e . g . , glucose - depleted L . Se ( + ) cells exhibited a first order loss of GSH that was substantially faster than that of glucose - depleted L . Se ( - ) cells .
As such , sustained nuclear FOXO3a expression in breast cancer may culminate in cancer progression and the development of an aggressive phenotype similar to that observed in cytotoxic chemotherapy resistant breast cancer cell models .
Utilizing antibody raised against the purified human erythrocyte glucose transporter , we have identified the glucose transporter as a membrane glycoprotein with a monomer Mr of approximately 41 , 000 .
The present study demonstrates that Tie1 expression is rapidly down - regulated in endothelial cells exposed to shear stress , and more so to shear stress changes .
Similar to tumors expressing dominant - negative TGF - beta type II receptor , histochemical studies revealed less fibrosis and increased angiogenesis in xenografted tumors expressing c - Ski compared to control tumors .
BACKGROUND : The fate of patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia of type II A ( MEN II A ) is determined by medullary thyroid carcinoma , which occurs in all cases .
In the present study this region is shown to contain a gene encoding a protein of 40 kilodaltons in HTLV - I and 37 kilodaltons in HTLV - II .
Vimentin was expressed preferentially in tumor cells of high - grade ductal breast carcinomas ( 15 of 28 histologic grade 3 vs . 0 of 40 grades 1 and 2 ) .
In conclusion , aspirin and nimesulide could inhibit cell proliferation and induce apoptosis in esophageal squamous carcinoma cells .
Curcumin , which is a widely used dietary pigment and spice , has been demonstrated to be an effective inhibitor of tumor promotion in mouse skin carcinogenesis .
The keratin 5 ( K5 ) promoter drives transgenic expression to the basal cell layer of stratified epithelia .
Coexpression of the progesterone receptor with mutant K - Ras led to suppression of tumorigenicity and inhibition of the activation of ER .
Here , we show that natural and synthetic progestins also induce thrombospondin - 1 ( TSP - 1 ) mRNA and protein in T47 - D and BT - 474 breast cancer cells .
The down - regulation of MTSS1 that may be caused by DNA methylation was also observed in many other types of cancer .
Irreversible PHT cases were also more likely to show compensatory upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor and new small vessel formation at the sites of native vessel stenosis or occlusion ( p less than 0 . 001 ) .
During 8 days of culture under 5 % O ( 2 ) , but not room air , the addition of FGF2 to explants stimulated the formation of Gs - IB ( 4 - ) positive , CD31 - positive , and Flk - 1 - positive microvessels in a concentration - dependent manner .
Angiogenesis , a multi - step process which involves endothelial cell proliferation , adhesion , migration , and basement membrane ( BM ) degradation , is essential for tumor metastasis .
In patients who received Pancreaticoduodenectomy , Whipple ' s operation , the level of fibrinogen in the group with local invasiveness was significantly higher than in the group without invasiveness .
Vasodilator - stimulated phosphoprotein is involved in stress - fiber and membrane ruffle formation in endothelial cells .
CONCLUSIONS : P18 is a novel and potent antiangiogenic biotherapeutic agent that has potential to be developed for the treatment of prostate and renal cancer .
Taken together , these results showed that , in addition to the MAPK pathway previously reported being a downstream target of stimulated Grm1 , AKT2 is another downstream target in Grm1 mediated melanocyte transformation .
In both cases , regulation of syndecan - 1 occurred post - transcriptionally , since syndecan - 1 mRNA levels remained unchanged .
Cyclooxygenase - 2 inhibitor may be a promising therapeutic agent for human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma .
Pretreatment IL levels were not associated with outcome .
BAG - 1L was nucleoplasmic and nucleolar , whereas BAG - 1S and BAG - 1M were cytoplasmic and nucleoplasmic in localisation .
Physiological angiogenesis is regulated by various factors , including signaling through vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) receptors .
In our study , MOG was shown to specifically inhibit the growth of human leukemia cell lines and primary acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) blasts via induction of apoptosis , with the evidence of mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss , reactive oxygen species production , caspases activation and nuclear fragmentation .
Mice that received either IR or TEMF had significantly fewer lung metastatic sites and slower tumor growth than did untreated mice .
Cells which were grown in media containing 5 and 10 ng / ml TGF - beta demonstrated a low level of colony - forming efficiency in soft agar medium without added epidermal growth factor and tumorigenicity in isogeneic rats .
The quaternary benzo [ c ] phenanthridine alkaloid sanguinarine inhibits the proliferation of cancerous cells from different origins , including lung , breast , pancreatic and colon , but nothing is known of its effects on osteosarcoma , a primary malignant bone tumour .
The latter effect is called reperfusion injury and can cause as much damage as the ischemia .
We further show that in extracts from caspase - 3 - deficient MCF - 7 cells , procaspase - 9 processing is strongly impaired after stimulation with either cytochrome c or recombinant caspase - 8 .
Immunohistochemical studies showed that the epithelioid cells were strongly positive for a broad spectrum of cytokeratins ( AE1 / AE3 , CAM5 . 2 , epithelial membrane antigen and cytokeratin 7 ) and mesothelial markers ( calretinin , Wilms ' tumour 1 and D2 - 40 ) .
Most anti - angiogenic therapies for malignant gliomas are in Phase I / II trials and only modest efficacies are reported for monotherapies .
The ST3 and BM - 40 / SPARC transcripts were overexpressed in primary colorectal cancers and their liver metastases compared to non - neoplastic mucosa .
The results of this study show that FOXO3a directs an anti - carcinogenic transcription program that culminates in the elimination of carcinogen - damaged cells .
The increased energy expended by the host to synthesize substrate , which is utilized by the tumor , is a potential cause of cancer cachexia .
Glutathione supplementation reversed the inhibitory effects of EPOX on ERK , which increases the phosphorylation of Mcl - 1 at T ( 163 . ) Overexpression of mitogen - activated protein / ERK kinase ( MEK ) partially reversed the effect of EPOX on Mcl - 1 dephosphorylation , ubiquitination , and degradation , further implicating ERK in the regulation of Mcl - 1 stability .
Very little is yet known about the precise relationship of p53 to malignant transformation .
There was no difference in fat encapsulation , necrosis , hemorrhage , or exudate between prostheses .
The transfer of apoptosis genes to tumors constitutes one of the most promising strategies for cancer gene therapy .
To evaluate the concept that localized delivery of angiogenic factors via virus - mediated gene transfer may be useful in the treatment of ischemic disorders , the replication - deficient adenovirus ( Ad ) vector AdCMV . VEGF165 ( where CMV is cytomegalovirus and VEGF is vascular endothelial growth factor ) containing the cDNA for human VEGF165 , a secreted endothelial cell - specific angiogenic growth factor , was constructed .
Induction of the MKP - 1 protein in the MCF10A - Myc and MDA - MB - 231 breast epithelial cell lines was also seen .
In addition , all of the endometrial cancer cell lines lost normal DCC expression .
Levels of pro - angiogenic vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and angiogenic inhibitor pigment epithelium - derived factor ( PEDF ) were determined .
Expression of ING4 is significantly reduced in gliomas as compared with normal human brain tissue , and the extent of reduction correlates with the progression from lower to higher grades of tumours .
Notably , the activation of BMPRII by BMP - 2 is required for modulation of Smad activation by NF - kappaB in PC cells .
In contrast , rap1GAPII , a negative regulator of Rap1 , did not inhibit ephrin - B1 - induced membrane ruffling .
To assess its role on human vascular lung development , we first examined the expression of IGF - I / II and IGF receptor type I ( IGF - IR ) in human embryonic and fetal lung tissues at 4 - 12 wk of gestation .
BACKGROUND : The aim of this study was to investigate not only the intratumoral and peritumoral lymphatic vessel density ( ILD and PLD ) but also the expression of vascular endothelial growth factors ( VEGFs ) and to test their correlation with regional lymph nodal metastases in papillary thyroid microcarcinoma ( PTMC ) .
SUMMARY : Staging of colorectal cancer occurs after surgery and is based on the extent of disease invasiveness and dissemination .
They were consistent with the concept of the existence of 2 pools of both lactate and pyruvate , of which 1 pool was closely connected with exogenous lactate and oxidative metabolism , and the other pool was closely related to glycolysis and disconnected from oxidative metabolism .
Characterization of the metabolic changes underlying growth factor angiogenic activation : identification of new potential therapeutic targets .
As with duplication of the entire TK / CAIN region ( exons 18 - 26 ) in A - 172 cells , duplication of exons 18 - 25 is associated with a specific genomic rearrangement between flanking introns .
Inhibition studies showed that adhesion of fibroblasts was mediated by several beta1 integrin receptors independent of the RGD and ECD recognition motif .
However , its transcript has been found in many soft , extracellular matrix - producing tissues ; an osteonectin - related protein was detected in tumor basement membrane .
OBJECTIVE : To determine the impact of thalidomide and angiostatin on tumor growth , angiogenesis , and apoptosis in a xenograft model of cervical cancer .
However , the development of cervical cancer is a multistep process that cannot be explained simply by infection with specific types of HPV .
RESULTS : 2ME2 exhibited antiproliferative and cytotoxic effects in a panel of five head and neck squamous cell carcinoma cell lines in the 0 . 5 to 10 micromol / L range , including induction of G2 - M blockade , caspase - 3 / 7 activation , and apoptosis at 48 hours .
An immunohistochemical score based on the intensity of immunoreactivity and proportion of immunoreactive cells was established for each MMP and TIMP .
Treatment involved intravitreal injection of bevacizumab ( 1 . 25 mg in 0 . 05 mL ) every 6 - 12 weeks .
However , little in vivo experimental data are available about the effects of NF - kappaB inhibition on OSCC metastasis .
Desipramine inhibits the growth of a mouse skin squamous cell carcinoma cell line and affects glucocorticoid receptor - mediated transcription .
The UFO proto - oncogene maps to human chromosome 19q13 . 1 and is transcribed into two 5 . 0 kb and 3 . 2 kb mRNAs in human bone marrow and human tumor cell lines .
The Hedgehog pathway antagonist cyclopamine effectively reduced Shh - induced proliferation to control levels .
The ability to positively and negatively regulate many of these pathways , combined with feedback signalling from these pathways to p53 , demonstrates the reciprocal and flexible nature of the regulation , facilitating a diverse range of responses to metabolic stress .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : Fifteen patients with MEN II A ( aged 4 - 24 years ) who had undergone prophylactic thyroidectomy since 1990 were included in the study .
Recent evidence has suggested a role for inflammation in seizure disorders .
Angiogenic stimulation was macroscopically detectable , with engulfment of the samples , in 39 % and was evidenced by angiography in 59 % of the samples .
Statistical analysis is performed and P < 0 . 05 considered significant .
The polyester prostheses utilized were polyester flat ( PF ) and polyester soft three - dimensional ( PS ) ; the PP mesh utilized was Marlex .
Left ventricular weight , body weight , and their ratio were not significantly altered by alinidine treatment .
13C and 1H nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( NMR ) was used to investigate the metabolism of L - lactate and D - glucose in C6 glioma cells .
Our findings suggest with a reduction of steroid hormones following ovariectomy , alternatively activated macrophage markers ( Fizz1 and Ym1 ) were reduced , with this effect being reversed with the administration of estrogen or progesterone ; suggesting that with the reduction of steroid hormones macrophages are activated in a classical manner , promoting inflammation , whereas estrogen or progesterone are contributing toward macrophage activation in an alternative manner , driving wound repair , angiogenesis , and remodeling .
Sci .
This study indicated that urine IL - 8 / Cr levels might be useful as a diagnostic marker of NHL .
Here , we show that gene transfer - induced p75 ( NTR ) expression impairs the survival , proliferation , migration , and adhesion capacities of cultured ECs and endothelial progenitor cells ( EPCs ) and inhibits angiogenesis in vitro .
For electron microscopic examination the cell suspensions were then incubated with gold - labeled antirabbit antibody .
Furthermore , mast cells have no mitogenic activity for capillary endothelial cells .
Glucose decreased the rate of glutamine utilization by 34 % .
This approach revealed a previously unrecognized transcriptional target of ELK - 1 , the human tissue plasminogen activator ( tPA ) .
9E3 / CEF4 was slightly mitogenic for CEF , causing a doubling of [ 3H ] thymidine uptake when added to serum - starved CEF . 9E3 / CEF4 was found associated not only with the cell and in the culture medium of Rous sarcoma virus - transformed CEF but also with the extracellular matrix .
Adenovirus - mediated gene transfer of endostatin in vivo results in high level of transgene expression and inhibition of tumor growth and metastases .
beta2 - glycoprotein I ( beta2GPI ) is proteolytically cleaved by plasmin in its domain V ( nicked beta2GPI ) , resulting in binding to plasminogen .
KISS1 methylation and expression as tumor stratification biomarkers and clinical outcome prognosticators for bladder cancer patients .
An assay to measure angiogenesis in human fat tissue .
The objective of this study was to ascertain whether STX243 is more active in vivo than the clinically relevant drug 2 - methoxyoestradiol ( 2 - MeOE2 ) and the structurally similar compound 2 - MeOE2 - 3 , 17 - O , O - bis - sulphamate ( STX140 ) .
Gene expression data from bone marrow ( BM ) , liver , and spleen of mice exposed to a single dose ( 4 h ) or seven daily doses of 2 - BE were used to develop a mechanistic model of hemangiosarcoma .
Undoubtedly , blood vessels growth regulation is a vital aspect in health and disease .
Moreover , renal carcinoma cell lines also released the soluble form of CD154 into the supernatant .
The CCAAT / enhancer - binding protein beta ( C / EBPbeta ) transcription factor has been associated with several cancer models .
Three patients ( 14 % ) regained 2 or more lines of visual acuity .
Tumor endothelial cell targeted cyclic RGD - modified heparin derivative : inhibition of angiogenesis and tumor growth .
Median overall and progression - free survivals are 14 . 4 and 4 . 7 months , respectively .
Meanwhile , knockdown of HDGF , an up - regulated protein and a target of NF - kappaB , induced cell apoptosis in the metastatic HCC cells .
Runx2 and MYC collaborate in lymphoma development by suppressing apoptotic and growth arrest pathways in vivo .
N - methyl - N - nitrosourea - induced transformation of rat urothelial cells in vitro is not mediated by activation of ras oncogenes .
RESULTS : Mice bearing subcutaneous tumor of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS pretreated Lewis lung carcinoma cells showed > 50 % reduction in primary tumor volume and reduced spontaneous pulmonary metastases .
Possible role of cyclooxygenase II in the acquisition of ovarian luteal function in rodents .
Preventing VEGFR1 function using antibodies or by the removal of VEGFR1 ( + ) cells from the bone marrow of wild - type mice abrogates the formation of these pre - metastatic clusters and prevents tumour metastasis , whereas reconstitution with selected Id3 ( inhibitor of differentiation 3 ) - competent VEGFR1 + cells establishes cluster formation and tumour metastasis in Id3 knockout mice .
Use of DNA microarray and small animal positron emission tomography in preclinical drug evaluation of RAF265 , a novel B - Raf / VEGFR - 2 inhibitor .
Because AR - ARD1 interaction facilitated the AR binding to its targeted promoters for gene transcription , we propose that ARD1 functions as a unique AR regulator and forms a positive feedback loop for AR - dependent prostate tumorigenesis .
Scrutiny of diagnostic indicators for verteporfin administration , including critical angiographic evaluation of lesion size and visual acuity , is essential to treatment success .
RESULTS : Expression of E - cadherin and alpha - catenin was reduced in 50 . 5 and 64 . 4 % , respectively .
Immunohistochemical and in situ hybridization studies revealed the presence of IGF - I / II - IGF - IR ligands and mRNA transcripts in embryonic lungs as early as 4 wk gestation .
Inactivation of androgen - induced regulator ARD1 inhibits androgen receptor acetylation and prostate tumorigenesis .
In a second step , these parameters were further analyzed by hierarchical cluster analyses .
The presence of activating mutations has been demonstrated in the TSH - R gene as well as in the Gs alpha protein gene in thyroid toxic adenoma resulting in the constitutive activation of the cAMP pathway and it has been hypothesised that these genetic alterations may play a causative role in the disease .
The identification of Erk1 , 2 as triggered signaling in the lesions may be valuable for the development of effective therapy for this disease .
Using tamoxifen and doxorubicin - sensitive and - resistant breast cancer cell lines as models , we found that doxorubicin - but not tamoxifen - resistance is associated with nuclear accumulation of FOXO3a , consistent with the finding that sustained nuclear FOXO3a is associated with poor prognosis .
The apparent first - order rate constant for GSH decay increased progressively for L1210 cells expressing a range of GPX activities from approximately 5 % to 100 % , demonstrating that peroxide detoxification is strictly dependent on enzyme content .
VEGF is a potent activator of angiogenesis as it promotes endothelial cell proliferation and new blood vessel formation .
A significant amount of type I HK RNA was also found expressed in cancer cell lines .
Differential mechanisms of radiosensitization by 2 - deoxy - D - glucose in the monolayers and multicellular spheroids of a human glioma cell line .
Consistently , it was found that MOG rapidly decreased the intracellular glutathione ( GSH ) content in a dose - dependent manner and the significance of GSH depletion in MOG - induced apoptosis was further supported by the protective effects of tert - butylhydroquinone ( tBHQ ) and the facilitative effects of DL - buthionine ( S , R ) - sulfoximine ( BSO ) .
This pattern of expression is consistent with a mechanistic involvement of 5T4 molecules in the spread of cancer cells .
H4 cells formed tight , round spheroids whereas H5 cells formed loose , grape - like structures .
We also observed an overlap between C / EBPbeta and COX - 2 expression in GC .
CSC - high C6 cell cultures also induced higher levels of endothelial cell proliferation and tubule organization in vitro compared with CSC - low cultures .
Newly forming vessels have thin caliber , a markedly reduced vessel lumen , markedly reduced pericyte recruitment , and deficient vascular perfusion .
Group 2 animals had the same procedure of DMBA applications but also received alpha tocopherol .
The authors detected both nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 mRNA levels in 47 tissues samples of patients with carcinoma of buccal mucosa ( CBM ) by quantitative reverse transcription PCR amplification .
After 4 days , these cells are harvested and cytospins made for immunostaining .
METHODS : Grafted animals for corneal survival analysis were assigned to receive either spironolactone suspension ( orally , 100 mg / kg / day , n = 7 ) , phosphate - buffered saline ( PBS , orally , same volume as spironolactone , n = 9 ) or remained untreated ( n = 16 ) .
We compared a treatment schedule were cells were bolus incubated for 3h with doxorubicin followed by 24h in drug - free medium , with a continuous doxorubicin treatment schedule for 24h .
Highly metastatic IV Cl 1 cells expressed approximately 5 fold lower levels of protein encoded by NME genes than non - metastatic IV Cl 3 cells .
Significantly , phenotypic reversion of malignant cells via reexpression of HoxD10 , which is lost in malignant progression , significantly attenuated VEGF expression in a hypoxia - inducible factor 1alpha - independent fashion and reduced EC migration .
Correlating the results of these two methods and clinicopathological factors , the c - kit expression and c - kit gene mutation rates were 95 . 0 % ( 19 / 20 ) and 0 in benign GIST , and were 98 . 4 % ( 61 / 62 ) , 54 . 8 % ( 34 / 62 ) in malignant GIST .
Notch signaling regulates intestinal development , homeostasis and tumorigenesis , but its precise downstream mechanism remains largely unknown .
Thus , VEGF , Ang - 1 and - 2 may play complementary and coordinated roles in airway angiogenesis and microvascular remodeling , and these structural changes are potentially reversible by therapeutic intervention .
The TGF - beta type II receptor in chronic myeloid leukemia : analysis of microsatellite regions and gene expression .
Both COL - I and COL - V showed statistically significant ( P less than 0 . 05 ) increased activity between day 7 and day 14 for pattern A , potentially indicating a continued effect on matrix remodeling .
However , survival analysis showed that the COUP - TFII - positive group had a significantly better OS compared to COUP - TFII - negative group ( 80 . 4 % vs . 57 . 7 % , P = 0 . 0491 ) .
The role of each prognostic variable and their independent effect were studied using the Cox model .
There was a significant correlation between eye appraisal and Chalkley counting ( P less than 0 . 0001 ) .
The present study compares the radiomodification by 2 - DG in monolayer cultures and spheroids of a human glioma cell line ( BMG - 1 ) to gain insight into the effects in solid tumors .
Our data show a significant loss of Plexin C1 in metastatic melanoma compared with primary melanoma , suggesting the possibility that the Plexin C1 receptor is a tumor suppressor protein for melanoma .
Tumors greater than 35 mm3 treated with IR 24 hours previously or with TEMF had decreased blood vessels in the subcortex and more endothelial pseudopods projecting into hypoxic , HIF positive areas than tumors from the control group .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : Twenty - one patients with radiation retinopathy ( edema , hemorrhages , capillary dropout , and neovascularization ) and a subjective or objective loss of vision were treated .
Archival tissues from 40 patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma who received primary surgical resection were examined for HSP27 by immunohistochemistry and correlated with clinical stage , lymph node metastasis , histological grade and survival period .
The intensity of MDM2 staining was not significant .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : The tissues were stained with monoclonal antibodies to EGFR , TGF - alpha and Ki - 67 .
Y705F / S727E mutant cells were more invasive than Y705F / S727A ( inactivation of Y705 and S727 ) mutant cells , and more Y705F / S727E mutant Stat3 was localized in the nuclei relative to Y705F / S727A mutant Stat3 at the steady state .
Here , we examined the function of c - Ski in human diffuse - type gastric carcinoma OCUM - 2MLN cells .
Moreover , expression of a dominant negative AP - 2 protein , AP - 2delta ( deleted residues 31 - 117 ) , not only repressed the ErbB - 3 promoter activity but also suppressed endogenous ErbB - 3 transcription in the ErbB - 3 overexpressing cell line MRC - 5VA .
The angiogenic response of fat tissue is not identical to placental tissue .
Ectopic localization of mitochondrial ATP synthase : a target for anti - angiogenesis intervention ?
Blockage of the Akt pathway attenuated CREB activation , and a decrease in CREB expression reduced cellular migration / invasion and activity of MMPs .
PURPOSE : This study was designed to reconcile our previous findings with the recent report of nm23 - H1 allelic deletion in human colon cancers associated with poor prognosis .
Cancer stem cells ( CSC ) are predicted to be critical drivers of tumor progression due to their self - renewal capacity and limitless proliferative potential .
However , unlike tumor invasion , trophoblast invasion of the uterus is stringently controlled in situ by local molecules such as transforming growth factor ( TGF ) beta .
The authors show that resection of the primary osteosarcoma tumor enhances progression of pulmonary metastasis in animal osteosarcoma models .
Together , these studies define a novel p53 - survivin signaling pathway activated by DNA damage that results in down - regulation of survivin , cell cycle arrest , and apoptosis .
Survivin expression in breast carcinoma : correlation with apoptosis and prognosis .
Changes in c - FLIP ( L ) and cFLIPs levels were observed in some but not all the cell lines studied following glucose deprivation .
Inhibition by retinoic acid of type IV collagenolysis and invasion through reconstituted basement membrane by metastatic rat mammary adenocarcinoma cells .
Thus , nicked beta2GPI exerts dual effects on angiogenesis , that is , nicked beta2GPI promotes angiogenesis in the presence of AS4 . 5 , whereas nicked beta2GPI inhibits angiogenesis at concentrations high enough to neutralize AS4 . 5 .
Hypoxia - induced gene expression in cancer cells has been linked to malignant transformation .
Our experiments demonstrate that insulin - like growth factor I indeed induces hexokinase gene expression in a concentration and time dependent manner in two cancer cell lines we studied .
RESULTS : Chang hepatocytes grown in the coculture conditioned media have an increase in TNF - alpha and Fas ligand .
Since the HTR8 line has a limited in vitro lifespan of 12 - 15 passages , SV40 Tag - transformed cells were selected on the basis of extended lifespan .
CONCLUSIONS : Low - dose cyclophosphamide and high - dose celecoxib is well tolerated and active in pretreated aggressive non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma .
We have found out that docetaxel - ATRA combination significantly downregulates survivin ( BIRC5 ) , myeloid cell leukemia - 1 ( MCL - 1 ) and lymphotoxin beta - receptor ( LTbetaR ) genes , which all three have pivotal roles in regulation of apoptosis and cell cycle progression .
These results indicate the possibility that activation of angiogenic activity after resection of osteosarcoma tumors enhances progression of pulmonary metastasis .
Possible mechanisms involved in sensitizing cells to a p53 - dependent apoptosis pathway in spite of the ability of T antigen to bind and inactivate the transcriptional transactivating activity of p53 are discussed .
Neovascularization , an essential event for the growth of solid tumors , is regulated by a number of angiogenic factors .
Extensive research , however , has revealed that TNF - alpha is one of the major players in tumor initiation , proliferation , invasion , angiogenesis and metastasis .
Available data indicate that the timing of telomerase activation may allow the distinction of two different lymphomagenetic models : ( i ) an early activation of telomerase via exogenous regulators of hTERT , along with an increased lymphocyte growth and a subsequent selection of cells with increased transforming potential may characterize several virus - related lymphoid malignancies ; ( ii ) a progressive shortening of telomeres , leading to genetic instability which favors a subsequent activation of telomerase via endogenous regulators may occur in most virus - unrelated lymphoid tumors .
Urokinase receptor : a molecular organizer in cellular communication .
Brk1 is required for cell proliferation and cell transformation by oncogenes .
Although anti - VEGF therapies have clearly demonstrated antitumor efficacy in various malignancies , especially when combined with conventional cytotoxic chemotherapy , their mechanism of action is not fully understood .
The authors found that patients in the high PE group survived for a significantly shorter time than those patients in the low PE group .
Bmi - 1 over - expression in neural stem / progenitor cells increases proliferation and neurogenesis in culture but has little effect on these functions in vivo .
Interleukin - 1 ( IL - 1 ) synthesis in the brain is stimulated by mechanical injury and IL - 1 mimics some effects of injury , such as gliosis and neovascularization .
Together , our data define caspase - 3 as an important integrator of the apoptotic process in MCF - 7 breast cancer cells and reveal an essential function of caspase - 3 for procaspase - 9 processing .
For efficacy studies , nude mice bearing orthotopically implanted tumors derived from breast cancer cell line MDA - MB - 435 were treated with galectin - 3C or a vehicle control i . m . twice daily for 90 days .
In addition , TNFalpha treatment alone led to increased malignant transformation of mouse embryo fibroblasts , which could be partially suppressed by antioxidants .
The grafts were implanted in the abdominal aortic position of 24 dogs autologously .
The size of these A431 tumors did not differ significantly from those of control A431 tumors raised without F - 2 cells .
Although pancreatic cancer is the fifth common cause of cancer death in Western countries , current options in treatment enable a 5 - yr survival rate for all stages of less than 5 % .
Twenty mature male New Zealand white rabbits ( 3 kg weight ) were employed to evaluate the effects of two empirically selected stimulation paradigms applied continuously for 7 - 21 days , using each animal as its own control .
Treatment of NIH 3T3 cells with the PKC inhibitor staurosporine , the tyrosine kinase inhibitor herbimycin A , and the AA metabolism inhibitor quinacrine induces apoptotic cell death .
Finally , DNase I footprint analysis with a segment of the promoter containing these elements reveals the binding of several nuclear proteins .
These data suggested that inhibition of p53 - dependent apoptosis may depend on the transcriptional repression function of the 55 - kDa protein , which appears to be regulated be phosphorylation at the carboxy terminus .
Identification of the putative transforming protein of the human T - cell leukemia viruses HTLV - I and HTLV - II .
The safety of verteporfin is directly dependent upon the appropriate integration of dosage , infusion and light activation required for a suitable pharmacotherapeutic outcome .
It is questionable , whether collateral arteries also form de novo in ischemic vascular diseases .
Alternative hypotheses , wherein the glucose is used for generation of reducing equivalents ( NADPH ) or anabolic precursors ( ribose ) are also discussed .
Cell type - specific regulation of angiogenic growth factor gene expression and induction of angiogenesis in nonischemic tissue by a constitutively active form of hypoxia - inducible factor 1 .
Our aim was to investigate the role of tumor lymphangiogenesis during metastasis .
In vitro migration and invasion were assessed in these cells , and the NF - kappaB activities and expression of NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules were also examined .
These findings indicate that TS and CD82 may be of great value in assessing lymph node metastasis of OSCC , and could be taken as new targets for therapy of metastatic OSCC .
In these settings TNF demonstrates potent and selective activity on the tumor vascular bed , which strongly improves tumor response .
However , as only a fraction of cells in advanced Kaposi ' s sarcoma lesions express vGPCR , it is unclear whether this unique viral oncogene contributes to Kaposi ' s sarcoma progression .
An N - terminal segment containing the first 127 T - antigen amino acids ( T1 - 127 ) was sufficient to sensitize cells .
U - 995 is composed of two single peptides with molecular mass of 10 and 14 kDa , respectively .
RESULTS : ITCs were observed in peripheral blood and bone marrow even in early stages of gastric cancer .
Ischemia , involving restricted blood flow to tissues is the most common consequence of vessel dysfunction resulting in the disruption of oxygen and nutrient delivery and the accumulation of waste metabolites .
Its suppression has also been shown to be associated with malignant transformation of epithelial cells .
HIF - 2alpha was detected in hypoxic and in well - oxygenized neuroblastoma cells and tissue , presumably reflecting their embryonic features .
N - myc overrode the metabolic protection provided by Bcl - 2 - induced oxidative phosphorylation by reestablishing the glycolytic phenotype and attenuated the antiapoptotic effect of Bcl - 2 during metabolic stress .
Because of this , and the virtual explosion of interest in pomegranate as a medicinal and nutritional product that has followed , this review is accordingly launched .
CONCLUSION : BRAF p . Val600Lys mutations were present at a relatively high frequency in this cohort of metastatic melanoma patients ( 27 / 183 , 15 % ) .
Control RM - 9 cells and RM - 9 cells stably transfected with IL - 12 gene ( RM - 9 - IL12 ) were inoculated subcutaneously in 4 - to 6 - week - old male C57BL / J6 mice .
Multiple proteins involved in metastasis and the cytoskeletal reorganization signal pathway , including Ras , Cdc42 , Rac1 , RhoA , RhoB , PI3K and p38MAPK , were also inhibited by GA .
Our results showed that curcumin dose - dependently inhibited ( P < 0 . 05 ) the proliferation of MCF - 7 cells .
We conclude that the transforming properties of the activated Ha - ras gene in Rat - 1 cells can be suppressed at the post - translational level by the presence of the genome from diploid embryonic rat fibroblasts but additional controls of expression of the transforming gene are likely to exist .
It is concluded that primary skin fibroblasts are able to survive for at least 8 weeks following intracerebral implantation and continue to synthesize collagen and fibronectin in vivo .
RESULT : The average IMVD was ( 21 . 50 + / - 8 . 87 ) , and median of AI was 1 . 15 % .
Higher platelet concentrations may expose beneficial effects of PRP .
Interleukin - 6 ( IL - 6 ) is proinflammatory cytokine that produces multifunctional effects .
Restoration occurred in the presence of a protein synthesis inhibitor but not after a transcriptional block , indicating that c - myc is a direct , transcriptionally regulated target of c - Myb .
These findings have suggested that diabetes mellitus may have a different action on retinal and coronary circulation .
On day 21 , all rats received 5 x 10 ( 5 ) hepatoma cells intrasplenically .
Inhibition of Akt , however , does not fully attenuate p - XSC - mediated downregulation of AR activity , suggesting that inhibition of AR signaling by p - XSC does not occur solely through alterations in the phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase / Akt survival pathway .
Further , the inhibition of EGF binding by tumor promoters following long - term treatment of Swiss 3T3 cells with PDBu also varied with growth state .
In this study , we address the mechanism by which VEGFR - 2 phosphorylation is regulated by dopamine .
These data strongly implicate the BR - SMADs as part of a critical developmental pathway in ovaries and testis that , when disrupted , leads to malignant transformation .
A significant increase was observed in flt - 1 ( P less than 0 . 001 ) , KDR ( P = 0 . 02 ) , and flt - 4 ( P = 0 . 01 ) but not VEGF - B ( P = 0 . 82 ) or VEGF - C ( P = 0 . 52 ) expression in clear cell compared with chromophil ( papillary ) carcinomas .
Despite convincing evidence of its efficacy , little is known about the mechanism of action of TnI as an anti - proliferative and anti - angiogenic agent .
The effects on aerobic glucose consumption , lactic acid formation , content of total ( T - SH ) and non - protein thiol groups ( NP - SH ) , endogenous and exogenous respiration and the level of ATP in tumour cells incubated in vitro were investigated .
Controlling lymph node metastasis is currently a key issue in cancer therapy .
Normal cells are 10 - to 50 - fold more resistant to these effects .
The angiogenic switch occurred in early stages of pre - malignant tumor formation , and tumor angiogenesis was significantly enhanced in TSP - 2 - deficient mice .
Apart from the vascular grade , none of the other factors examined was statistically related to lymph node metastasis ( P less than 0 . 0001 ) .
Knocking down p24delta1 in insulinoma cell lines , which also resulted in the concomitant knock - down of other family members , impaired glucose - stimulated insulin secretion , decreased total cellular insulin content and reduced proinsulin biosynthesis .
To test the hypothesis that 20 - HETE increases endothelial cell ( EC ) proliferation via vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , we studied the effects of WIT003 [ 20 - hydroxyeicosa - 5 ( Z ) , 14 ( Z ) - dienoic acid ] , a 20 - HETE analog on human macrovascular or microvascular EC .
Here clinical outcome is updated and its correlation with new immunological data is shown .
Only one eye received a second PDT treatment due to choroidal neovascularization .
These studies have led to a hypothesis that the supplemental intake of these vitamins may reduce the risk of cancer .
A greater accumulation of peroxidative products ( thiobarbituric acid - reactive substances ) , inflammation and decreased levels of GSH and total antioxidant reserves were also observed in the skin of DMBA - Cum - OOH - exposed mice .
[ 13C ] Lactate production from [ 13C ] glucose , with no detectable uptake of [ 13C ] alanine , indicated that energy production in H5 spheroids was primarily via glycolysis .
In order to elucidate a mechanism for cancer - induced osteoclastogenesis , cells from a human breast cancer line , MDA - MB - 231 , were directly co - cultured with ST2 , MC3T3 - E1 , or with primary mouse calvarial cells .
Human cytomegalovirus elevates levels of the cellular protein p53 in infected fibroblasts .
Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) , like other DNA tumor viruses , induces morphological transformation of cells in vitro and stimulates host cell macromolecular synthesis in infected cells .
PURPOSE : Members of the transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - beta superfamily play critical roles in regulation of various cellular functions .
3 - Chloromethylthiochromone - 1 , 1 - dioxide was observed to be a potent inhibitor of Ehrlich ascites carcinoma growth and a moderate inhibitor of P - 388 lymphocytic leukemia growth at 10 mg / kg / day .
METHODS : We quantified expression of MCT isoforms in human glioblastoma multiforme and glioma - derived cells lines by Western blot analysis .
We further show that Stat3 is phosphorylated at S727 in 65 % of malignant prostate tissues ( n = 20 ) relative to 25 % of normal prostate tissues ( n = 4 ) .
A series of epithelial cell lines and a single fibroblast cell line established in this way were analysed for the presence of transforming genes by DNA transfection into NIH3T3 cells .
METHODS : Using flow cytometry we evaluated 18 human lung cancer cell lines for the expression of different surface markers on lung cancers suggested to be possible prognostic parameters , including epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) , intercellular adhesion molecule 1 ( ICAM - 1 ) , Fas and CD40 .
Murine leukemia L1210 cells rendered deficient in glutathione peroxidase ( GPX ) and phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase ( PHGPX ) by Se deprivation ( L . Se ( - ) cells ) were found to be more sensitive to tert - butyl hydroperoxide ( t - BuOOH ) cytotoxicity than Se - replete controls ( L . Se ( + ) cells ) .
In the mammary carcinoma experiment , vascular permeability measured by means of B22956 / 1 in the animals treated with the antiangiogenic drug ( 0 . 0043317 + / - 0 . 0040418 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) ) was significantly less than in untreated animals ( 0 . 0090460 + / - 0 . 0043680 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) ) , whereas no significant difference was observed with Gd - DTPA - albumin ( 13 . 14 + / - 13 . 94 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) in treated animals and 18 . 07 + / - 11 . 92 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) in untreated animals ) .
Hypoxia - activated functional HIF - 1 protein binds to hypoxia - responsive elements ( HRE ) in the enhancers of several genes including VEGF , the major player in angiogenesis , and initiates their mRNA expression .
Glycolysis of 3T3 and Ehrlich ascites tumor cells was greatly enhanced by Nonidet P - 40 or Triton X - 100 at about 100 micrograms / mg cell protein .
These results suggest that the tumor - bearing animal , even prior to significant cachexia , has an excess demand for energy , the provision of which may be a significant factor in malignant cachexia .
The functional benefit of cell transplantation after a myocardial infarction is diminished by early cell losses .
Based on these data , our aim was to examine the synergistic / additive cytotoxic and apoptotic effects of combination of docetaxel and ATRA , in hormone - and drug refractory human DU - 145 prostate cancer cells .
Little difference was observed in their transforming efficiency ( 0 . 2 - 0 . 3 transformants / micrograms DNA ) between the combinations of oncogenes applied but a tendency was noted that cells transfected with ras or src in combination with myc developed the capacity to grow for a longer period and differentiated at a later stage than those transfected solely with ras or src .
From 35 to 100 % of the whole amount of ATP resynthesized via glycolysis is utilized for transport purposes .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , fibroblast growth factor ( FGF ) , recombinant proteins and bone marrow stem cells are currently used therapeutic stimulators for angiogenesis .
Mitochondrial apoptosis and FAK signaling disruption by a novel histone deacetylase inhibitor , HTPB , in antitumor and antimetastatic mouse models .
BACKGROUND : The coagulation function in patients with pancreatic carcinoma is abnormal and the reason is not very clear .
Dysregulation of the signaling mechanisms of the TGF - beta superfamily proteins is associated with clinical diseases such as cancer , fibrotic diseases , and vascular disorders .
Hypoxia also increased VEGF production by SCC lines , which was inhibited by treatment with SB203580 .
It involves endothelial cell activation , basal membrane degradation , leukocyte invasion , proliferation of vascular cells , neointima formation ( in most species studied ) , and changes of the extracellular matrix .
Blockade of PAF - R by WEB - 2170 , a PAF - R antagonist , abolished the CD154 - dependent motility , indicating a role for PAF synthesized after CD154 stimulation in renal carcinoma cell motility .
To assay for the possible presence of transforming genes which were not active in a focus formation assay , two of the epithelial lines were analysed further by co - transfection with a dominant selectable marker , followed by selection and inoculation into nude mice .
Pancreatic endocrine tumors : expression profiling evidences a role for AKT - mTOR pathway .
Targeting tumour pericytes is a promising anti - angiogenic therapy but requires identifying the mechanisms of their recruitment in tumour and addressing whether these mechanisms can be selectively harnessed .
Our study reveals a novel link between HMGA2 and the regulation of human telomerase reverse transcriptase ( hTERT ) , the catalytic subunit of telomerase , which offers critical insight into how HMGA2 contributes to tumorigenesis .
Experiments using the tsA 58 allele of the SV 40 - A gene have demonstrated that the SV 40 large T - antigen is strictly required both for immortalization and induction anchorage independence of cells .
Thus , our results indicate that under appropriate conditions rho genes function as oncogenes and may have a role in the regulation of proliferation in fibroblast cells .
Our results strongly suggest that estradiol has a critical role in the regulation of IL - 8 in normal human breast tissue and human breast cancer .
In a variety of cell types , the glycolipid - anchored urokinase receptor ( uPAR ) is colocalized pericellularly with components of the plasminogen activation system and endocytosis receptors .
The compound was orally bioavailable ( 31 % after a single 10 mg kg ( - 1 ) dose ) and resistant to metabolism .
This model suggests that forced expression of CDK4 sensitizes cells and synergizes with a second change resulting in tumor development .
The expression of PTEN mRNA and protein was negatively correlated with lymph node metastasis of advanced gastric carcinomas ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Conversely , knockdown of endogenous FOXO3a expression reduced PI3K / Akt activity .
Hypoxia - inducible factor - 1 ( HIF - 1 ) is one of the key mammalian transcription factors and shows increased levels in both protein stability and intrinsic transcriptional activity during low oxygen tension .
Large lesions with relatively good visual acuity ( 20 / 50 or better ) may be at particular risk for marked vision loss following verteporfin administration .
Downregulation of E - cadherin occurred at the level of transcription or of mRNA stability .
Our results suggest that this small peptide functions as an angiogenic inhibitor by inhibiting VEGF function through a non - VEGF binding mechanism .
IFN - alpha / beta signalling itself does not activate p53 ; rather , it contributes to boosting p53 responses to stress signals .
Clinically , elderly patients are more vulnerable to acute myocardial infarction ( AMI ) .
The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate firstly whether different protein expression patterns exist in primary squamous cell lung carcinomas of patients with and without lymph node involvement and secondly , whether or not different patterns exist in tumours with positive lymph nodes .
METHODS : Four hundred eighty - four consecutive eyes of 446 patients treated with PDT from January 1 , 2001 , to June 30 , 2002 , were identified from billing records .
Long - term peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) is associated with alterations in peritoneal permeability and loss of ultrafiltration .
CONCLUSION : We present initial results demonstrating anti - inflammatory effects of spironolactone .
Treatment of mice bearing a small ear tumor with a humanized antivascular endothelial growth factor antibody prevented the down - regulation of leukocyte - vessel wall interactions inside the tumor vessels compared with the nontreated group .
Therefore , our results indicate that emodin inhibits HER - 2 / neu tyrosine kinase activity and preferentially suppresses growth and induces differentiation of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing cancer cells .
Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays further confirmed specific c - Myc binding to galectin - 1 promoter .
Aberrant angiogenesis leads to a variety of diseases , such as ischemia and cancer .
To analyze the role of ADAM - 9 for the interaction between melanoma cells and stromal fibroblasts , we produced the recombinant disintegrin - like and cysteine - rich domain of ADAM - 9 ( DC - 9 ) .
CONCLUSIONS : Our promising results on the potential antitumor effects of hPNAS - 4 on ovarian cancer in vitro and in vivo may be explained , in part , by the induction of apoptosis and inhibition of angiogenesis .
UFT and its metabolites inhibit the angiogenesis induced by murine renal cell carcinoma , as determined by a dorsal air sac assay in mice .
The data support the hypothesis that increased epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) and transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - alpha expression is associated with early events in malignant transformation of pleomorphic adenoma ( PA ) .
RESULTS : PLGA microspheres with an open - porous structure were formed .
CONCLUSIONS : ITCs circulate even in early stages of disease .
Treatment of cultured human endothelial cells with DAPT , a gamma secretase inhibitor , increased cell migration and sprout formation in response to VEGF stimulation with a biphasic dependence on DAPT concentration .
Toxicity , pharmacokinetic , and organ biodistribution studies were performed in nude mice .
Metastasis from lung adenocarcinoma can occur swiftly to multiple organs within months of diagnosis .
As a consequence the cyclin D1 ( bcl - 1 ) gene is juxtaposed to the immunoglobulin heavy chain enhancer E mu .
Very low - dose irradiation ( 2 x 2 Gy ) is a new , effective , and safe local treatment for follicular lymphoma .
We found that the severity of vascular abnormalities correlated positively with the severity of histologic epithelial lesions ; this finding is consistent with colposcopic results .
In examining the metabolic basis for selenoperoxidase - dependent resistance , we found that glucose - replete Se ( - ) cells reduce t - BuOOH to t - butanol far more slowly than Se ( + ) cells , the ratio of the first - order rate constants approximating that of the GPX activities ( L1210 cells ) or PHGPX activities ( K562 cells ) .
Germline succinate dehydrogenase subunit A ( SDHA ) mutations have been reported in a few patients with a classical mitochondrial neurodegenerative disease .
This resulted in beta tumor cell metastases in distant organs and local lymph nodes , demonstrating a role for pericytes in limiting tumor cell metastasis .
Consequently , we examined by immunohistochemistry , using the avidin - biotin - peroxidase method , Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 expression in 56 samples of primary oral squamous cell carcinoma and in 22 matched pairs of primary and metastatic tumors .
Also , the combination of docetaxel and ATRA might allow a reduction in docetaxel doses and by this way may diminish docetaxel adverse effects while maintaining the therapeutic effect in patients with HRPC .
Transcutaneous measurements of tissue pO2 showed elevation from 20 + / - 10 mm Hg during air breathing to 643 + / - 242 mm Hg while breathing pure oxygen at 2 . 5 ATA .
We used a series of cell clones from a human teratocarcinoma cell line , PA - 1 , to study the effect of transformation by an activated N - ras oncogene on the expression of genes involved in retinoic acid ( RA ) - induced differentiation and growth regulation .
However , this modular protein core also binds with relatively high affinity to a number of growth factors and surface receptors , thereby stabilizing cell - matrix links .
We show that HIF - 1alpha and VEGF are increased through A3 adenosine receptor stimulation , whereas the effects on IL - 8 are mediated via the A2B subtype .
c - Met expression is regulated by Mitf in the melanocyte lineage .
This study identifies genes expressed early in 12 - O - tetradecanoylphorbol - 13 - acetate ( TPA ) - induced skin carcinogenesis in genetically initiated Tg . AC v - Ha - ras transgenic mice .
Topoisomerase I ( topo I ) is an important target for the treatment of malignant disease , especially colorectal cancer .
Intracerebral grafting of cultured autologous skin fibroblasts into the rat striatum : an assessment of graft size and ultrastructure .
9E3 / CEF4 , which is released from transformed chicken embryo fibroblasts ( CEF ) , is a member of the platelet factor 4 family of inflammatory proteins and may be the avian homolog of interleukin - 8 .
The Down syndrome critical region gene 1 short variant promoters direct vascular bed - specific gene expression during inflammation in mice .
As pregnancy advanced the complexity of the vasculature increased : at 4 weeks the surface showed a pattern of ridges separated by troughs .
Histologic parameters ( primary and secondary bone trabecula , neovascularization , and bone marrow and connective tissue formation ) were compared between 4 - and 16 - week groups . More rapid decrease in defect size was observed in groups 3 and 4 than in groups 1 and 2 , both in the 4th and 16th weeks .
Treatment with the combination of 1B3 and DC101 in BxPC - 3 xenograft - bearing mice resulted in tumor regression in 58 % of mice compared to that in 18 % of mice treated with DC101 alone .
Despite an increase in the activation of these signal transducers , the mammary gland of females expressing exogenous Tsg101 developed normally throughout the reproductive cycle .
However , fetal utilization of oxygen and glucose , on a weight basis , remain constant compared with control pregnancies .
These findings advance our understanding of the functions of N - myc in neuroblastoma cells .
In this study , we retrospectively analyzed the coagulation function in patients with pancreatic carcinoma .
Requirement of estrogen receptor expression and function for [ 12Val ] K - Ras - mediated NIH3T3 cell transformation .
Acute ethanol exposure disrupts VEGF receptor cell signaling in endothelial cells .
In synchronized cultures at the beginning of the mitotic cycle , the bulk of ATP resynthesized via glycolysis is utilized for the synthesis of biopolymers , whereas that at the end of the S - phase and in the G2 - phase is utilized for cation transport across plasma membranes .
To investigate this possibility , we studied the influence of bovine lactoferrin on Fas - mediated apoptosis with regard to expression of Fas , activation of caspase - 8 and caspase - 3 , and DNA fragmentation in the colon mucosa of AOM - treated rats .
Our current data suggest that gamma rays worked as an initiator of carcinogenesis in normal human cells , giving rise to chromosome aberrations and immortality , and the Ha - ras oncogene played a role in the progression of the immortally transformed cell population to a neoplastic one showing enhanced colony formation in soft agar and tumorigenicity in nude mice .
Gene therapy for gliomas : p53 and E2F - 1 proteins and the target of apoptosis .
Ang - 2 - deficient tumor vessels had higher pericyte coverage indices .
It leads to enhanced oxygenation of the affected tissues , has an antiseptic effect , reduces edema , and accelerates collagen production and angiogenesis , thus enhancing tissue repair .
High levels of these angiogenic factors in heart disease also have not translated into clinically significant new vessel formation , as in accelerated cancer growth or proliferative retinopathy .
At the cellular level many actions of thrombin can contribute to activation of angiogenesis : ( 1 ) .
Reversal of the malignant phenotype of ovarian cancer A2780 cells through transfection with wild - type PTEN gene .
Neoplastic progression of human colorectal cancer is associated with overexpression of the stromelysin - 3 and BM - 40 / SPARC genes .
The overall mutation rate of the MCR of the APC gene among 86 CRC cases was 12 . 8 per cent ( 11 of 86 ) .
Transfection of full - length 5T4 cDNA into epithelial cells alters cell - cell contacts and cellular motility .
Mast cells were found to be unique among the peritoneal leukocytes by virtue of their capacity to enhance profoundly the proliferation of a variety of tumors in vitro .
Blocking Dex - induced MKP - 1 induction using small interfering RNA increased ERK1 / 2 and JNK phosphorylation and decreased cell survival .
Expression of basic fibroblast growth factor in normal human tissues .
AVE8062 : a new combretastatin derivative vascular disrupting agent .
However , owing to the long latency of tumor formation and the sporadic occurrence of bona fide mammary cancers , we conclude that the Tsg101 protein has only weak oncogenic properties .
Here , we demonstrate that aglycon of rhizochalin ( AglRhz ) from the Rhizochalina incrustata induces AMP - activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) phosphorylation , and thereby inhibits mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) - p70S6 kinase - extracellular signal - regulated kinase ( ERK ) signaling and activator protein 1 ( AP - 1 ) activity via phosphorylation of Raptor in HT - 29 cells .
RESULTS : Methylation - specific polymerase chain reaction revealed PTEN promoter methylation in 15 . 9 % CCMs .
The two parameters were more frequently observed in the SCC with VEGF / p53 coexpression than in those without the coexpression .
Analysis of promoter hypermethylation of the APC gene was also carried out using methylation - specific PCR ( MS - PCR ) .
To evaluate the role of VEGF - C in lymph node metastasis , we developed an animal model by using an endometrial cancer cell line , HEC1A .
We have , therefore , examined components of this plasminogen activating system in patients with Non - Small Cell Lung Cancer ( NSCLC ) .
While the response to most treatments was not affected by the VHL gene status , glucose deprivation was found to be much more cytotoxic for RCC cells lacking VHL gene function than for wtVHL - expressing cells .
METHODOLOGY / PRINCIPAL FINDINGS : Gene expression was analyzed by quantitative RT - PCR on islets isolated from 10 - week - old diabetic GK and control Wistar rats .
An extensive array of compounds is currently in preclinical development , with many now entering the clinic and / or achieving approval from the US Food and Drug Administration .
CONCLUSION : Myofibroblasts represent an important prognostic factor for invasive growth that is translated into a poor clinical prognosis for patients with invasive breast cancer .
Expression of epidermal growth factor receptor , transforming growth factor - alpha and Ki - 67 in relationship to malignant transformation of pleomorphic adenoma .
In the present study , a novel inhibitor of angiogenesis was synthesized by covalently linking a nonanticoagulating derivative of heparin , heparin adipic hydrazide ( HAH ) , by an acid - labile bond to the antiangiogenic steroid , cortisol .
In addition , most of these agents require instrumentation of the urinary tract and are delivered at a significant cost and potential morbidity to the patient .
Curcumin ( 1 , 7 - bis ( 4 - hydroxy - 3 - methoxyphenyl ) - 1 , 6 - heptadiene - 3 , 5 - dione ) , is extracted from the plant Curcuma longa .
To determine if hypoxic activation of these stress activated protein kinases regulated HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression , we assayed JNK1 and p38 activity in squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) lines grown under normoxic or hypoxic conditions .
Tumor sections were stained for : endothelial cells with CD31 and PAS or hypoxia inducible factor 1alpha ( HIF ) .
This study shows that angiogenin expression is up - regulated in the cytoplasmic and nuclear compartments in in situ carcinoma and invasive carcinoma compared with normal breast tissue and that angiogenin expression in invasive carcinomas is significantly positively associated with high tumour grade ( p = 0 . 03 ) , positive oestrogen receptor ( ER ) status ( p = 0 . 01 ) , HIF - 1 alpha ( p = 0 . 001 ) and DEC 1 ( p = 0 . 001 ) , but not with patient age ( p = 0 . 8 ) , tumour size ( p = 0 . 25 ) , lymph node status ( p = 0 . 69 ) , epidermal growth factor receptor ( p = 0 . 56 ) or microvessel density ( p = 0 . 32 ) .
In epithelial cells , EphA2 and E - cadherin co - localize to sites of cell - cell contact , and it has been shown that E - cadherin regulates EphA2 .
Interestingly , the level of cyclin D3 protein , known as an activator of G ( 1 ) to S phase transition in the cell cycle , was aberrantly high in cells overexpressing PLD1 and PLD2 compared with control cells .
HTPB disrupted F - actin dynamics via downregulating RhoA activity .
Overexpression of AP - 2A resulted in a decreased proliferation rate and inhibitin of colony formation .
BAG - 1L also potentiated transactivation of known vitamin - D - responsive gene promoters , osteocalcin and 24 - hydroxylase , and enhanced VDR - dependent transcription and protein expression of the keratinocyte differentiation marker , involucrin .
These data indicate that dietary folate supplementation at 4x the basal dietary requirement significantly suppresses UC - associated colorectal carcinogenesis in the IL - 2 ( null ) x beta ( 2 ) m ( null ) mice .
Disruption of AR - ARD1 interactions may be a potent intervention for androgen - dependent PCa therapy .
CONCLUSIONS : These results suggest that the anti - angiogenic effects of U - 995 may be be due to interference with the proliferation and migration of HUVECs as well as inhibition of collagenolysis , thereby leading to inhibition of both angiogenesis and tumor cell growth .
Bradycardia was induced in rats by administering the bradycardic drug alinidine ( 3 mg / kg body weight ) twice daily .
Similar differences in NME protein levels were observed in tumors induced by the two cell lines in nude mice .
The mice that received Hoxa9 / Meis1 - transduced bone marrow cells developed acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) , and Trib1 , Evi1 , Ahi1 , Raralpha , Pitpnb , and AK039950 were identified as candidate cooperative genes located near common retroviral integration sites .
In addition , the results of the previously tested transketolase like 1 protein ( TKTL1 ) expression were correlated to LDH5 expression .
ICAM - 3 enhances the migratory and invasive potential of human non - small cell lung cancer cells by inducing MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 via Akt and CREB .
Dopamine administration leads to increased VEGF - induced phosphorylation of SHP - 2 and this increased phosphorylation parallels the increased phosphatase activity of SHP - 2 .
In the current study , Hedgehog signaling in tumor related vasculature and microenvironment was examined using human umbilical vein endothelial cells and B16F0 ( murine melanoma ) tumors models .
Activated Hck and membrane - anchored Cbl are present in similar subcellular localizations and co - immunoprecipitate , suggesting that their interaction is required for subsequent ubiquitination and degradation .
The present findings may be of importance to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying the spread of cancer via the lymphatics and explore the therapeutical strategy of honokiol on antilymphangiogenesis and antimetastasis .
Knockdown of VEGFR - 2 attenuated the sunitinib - induced effects , including apoptosis and inhibition of signaling pathways such as the phosphorylation of Akt as well as mTOR , and Bcl - 2 , which confirmed that these effects could be mediated by VEGFR - 2 .
Understanding molecular mechanisms regulating angiogenesis may lead to novel therapies for ischemic disorders .
Since all these cells lack any mRNA for collagen , XII , it seems likely that the synthesis is blocked at the transcriptional level .
The purpose of this study was to determine the level of agreement between pediatric dentists and endodontists at a pulp therapy symposium conjointly sponsored by the American Association of Endodontists ( AAE ) and the American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry ( AAPD ) on November 2 - 3 , 2007 .
High - grade clear cell renal cell carcinoma has a higher angiogenic activity than low - grade renal cell carcinoma based on histomorphological quantification and qRT - PCR mRNA expression profile .
The dynamic uptake of the glucose analogue [ 18F ] FDG was measured in diseased nodes and upper arm skeletal muscle in both metabolic states .
Activation of protein kinase C ( PKC ) induces phenotypic changes in the morphology of microvascular endothelial cells that affect major functions of the microvasculature .
Management of early and advanced colorectal cancer : therapeutic issues .
Mechanistically , it reduced expression of molecular markers of cell proliferation ( Ki67 ) and angiogenesis ( factor VIII ) , antiapoptotic factor Bcl - 2 , cell - cycle progression regulator cyclin D1 , and survival factor AKT1 .
We investigated how inhibition of glucose metabolism could affect death receptor - mediated apoptosis in human tumor cells of diverse origin .
Tumors of the retinal pigment epithelium metastasize to inguinal lymph nodes and spleen in tyrosinase - related protein 1 / SV40 T antigen transgenic mice .
In uremic patients , NOS activity is positively correlated with the duration of PD .
Upon initiation of angiogenesis with basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) on the chick chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) , endothelial cell mitogen - activated protein ( MAP ) kinase ( ERK ) activity was detected as early as 5 min yet was sustained for at least 20 h .
Group 2 was treated by Enoxaparine Na , group 3 received HBO therapy , and group 4 was given both enoxaparine Na and HBO treatment .
Controlled neo - endothelialisation is critical to the patency of small diameter vascular grafts .
Plasmid DNA encoding each of the three principal human VEGF isoforms ( phVEGF121 , phVEGF165 , or phVEGF189 ) was applied to the hydrogel polymer coating of an angioplasty balloon and delivered percutaneously to one iliac artery of rabbits with operatively induced hindlimb ischemia .
In contrast VEGF - B was not regulated by VHL despite clear up - regulation in vivo .
TP is not only expressed in tumor cells but also in tumor surrounding tissues , such as tumor infiltrating macrophages .
A perifusion system was designed in order to study glucose and glutamine metabolism by freshly harvested Ehrlich ascites tumour cells in steady state conditions .
The capacity of insulin to stimulate the VEGF promoter linked to a luciferase reporter gene was characterized in transient transfection assays .
N - ( Phosphonacetyl ) - L - aspartate ( PALA ) suppressed the growth of Ehrlich ascites tumour cells in vivo in a dose - dependent manner .
However , no changes were observed in the presence of netrin - 1 .
The nonspecific character of these pathways led us to hypothesize that circulating cancer cells use similar mechanisms , promoting secondary tumor formation at distal sites .
TUNEL data are reported as percentage apoptotic cells .
The spreading areas of the cells on 15 - and 30 - microm wide strips were 30 % lower than those on 60 - microm wide strips and unpatterned collagen .
In cultured stable Grm1 - mouse - melanocytic clones , as well as an metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 ( Grm1 ) expressing human melanoma cell line , C8161 , stimulation of Grm1 by its agonist led to the activation of AKT , while preincubation with Grm1 - antagonist abolished Grm1 - agonist - induced AKT activation .
It is also expressed by many types of tumour cell and has been associated with metastasis and poor clinical outcome in a number of cancers .
As determined by ELISA and immunoblot assays , ras p21 in the serum increased with increased tumor growth .
The apoptotic molecule bax is induced in p53 - mediated apoptosis , but bax is not induced in E2F - 1 - mediated apoptosis in glioma cells .
Our experimental data confirm previous studies showing the in vitro cell growth inhibition of the transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder cell line HTB9 and further showed the induction of cell cycle arrest at the S / G2 - M checkpoints .
RESULTS : EPOX induced endothelial cell apoptosis in association with proteasome - dependent Mcl - 1 degradation .
Although insulin sensitivity of skeletal muscle was also reduced in patients with lymphoma , the net insulin effect may counteract imbalance between glucose uptake of tumor and muscle , offering a potential means to circumvent at least some metabolic abnormalities found in cancer .
Similar methods applied to human ovarian and colon tumors confirmed endosialin expression by pericytes .
Our results support the use of FDG PET in clinical trials with RAF265 to assess early tumor response .
Both STX243 and STX140 were capable of retarding the growth of MDA - MB - 231 xenograft tumours ( 72 and 63 % , respectively ) , whereas no inhibition was observed for animals treated with 2 - MeOE2 .
Of all the secretory products of mast cells tested , only heparin stimulated capillary endothelial cell migration in vitro .
Lewis lung carcinomas , MT - ret melanomas , and B16F10 melanomas all grew slower in Ang - 2 - deficient mice .
These results suggest that CYR61 and CTGF may play a role in the progression of gliomas ; their levels at diagnosis may have prognostic significance ; and these proteins might serve as valuable targets for therapeutic intervention .
Unusual in healthy individuals , their presence in elevated numbers often indicates substantial vascular endothelial perturbation .
AQP4 was expressed in the cell membrane and cytoplasm and was detected markedly stronger in normal than in cancer tissues .
For this purpose , the presence of COX - 2 and PPARgamma was immunohistochemically examined in 71 epithelial ovarian carcinomas , 18 borderline tumours and 23 benign tumours and the levels of COX - 2 and PPARgamma proteins were determined by enzyme immunoassay in four benign tumours , three borderline tumours and 12 carcinomas .
These results suggest that apoptosis caused by elevated expression of Fas is involved in chemoprevention by lactoferrin of colon carcinogenesis .
We found that bolus ( 3h ) treatment with doxorubicin resulted in a dose - dependent decrease of viable cells and concomitant increase of apoptosis .
Malignant cells often display defects in autophagy , an evolutionarily conserved pathway for degrading long - lived proteins and cytoplasmic organelles .
Involved introns contain homology to recombination signal sequence ( RSS ) heptamers present in the V ( D ) J region of the T lymphocyte receptor gene .
Differences in polyphosphoinositide metabolism have been reported for ras - transformed cells .
Assuming discrimination thresholds between high - grade and low - grade tumours of 0 . 8 for 18F - FDG uptake and 1 . 8 for 123I - IMT uptake , the accuracy values of 18F - FDG PET and 123I - IMT SPET for differentiating between high - grade and low - grade tumours were 21 / 23 ( 91 % ) and 19 / 23 ( 83 % ) , respectively .
In this study , we used a Cdkn2a - deficient mouse melanocyte cell line to screen for secondary genetic events in melanoma tumor progression .
Protruding and expansive ulcerating carcinomas developed at 36 weeks and had a microvascular pattern similar to that of human adenocarcinoma .
KISS1 is a metastasis suppressor gene that is lost in several malignancies , including bladder cancer .
Four patients received bevacizumab at a dose of 10 mg / m2 ; irinotecan was given at a dose of 125 mg / m2 every week for 3 weeks .
Prostaglandin E2 production was measured by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay .
Thus , such a resonating cross - talk can amplify Hedgehog signaling , resulting in molecular chatter that overall promotes tumor progression .
RESULTS : Twenty - one eyes had juxtafoveal CNV .
The microvessel density ( MVD ) ) decreased from 42 . 4 + / - 4 . 8 to 10 . 5 + / - 3 . 2 per x 200 magnificetion microscopic field by CD10 staining and from 68 . 5 + / - 4 . 5 to 37 . 5 + / - 4 . 6 by CD31 staining , respectively ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
Reciprocal bone marrow transplants that involved both wild - type and PECAM - 1 - deficient mice revealed that the impaired angiogenic response resulted from a loss of endothelial , but not leukocyte , PECAM - 1 .
These results suggest that the role of mast cells in angiogenesis may be to enhance migration of the endothelial cells of growing capillaries .
Thus , our results provide the first evidence that , in human breast carcinoma cells and in rat mammary carcinomas that have an induced increase in neu expression , a consistent and substantial increase in the expression of specific PTPases occurs .
Inhibitors of angiogenesis hold potential in the treatment of cancer and other diseases where the disease is caused or maintained by the inappropriate growth of blood vessels .
Retrospective case series of juxtafoveal choroidal neovascularization treated with photodynamic therapy with verteporfin .
Each group was also divided into two subgroups according to poor and good CCC .
Our results showed that HeLa cells demonstrated the highest sensitivity to paclitaxel , whereas CaSki cells showed the lowest .
Here we show that angiogenesis is severely impaired in PSMA - null animals and that this angiogenic defect occurs at the level of endothelial cell invasion through the extracellular matrix barrier .
Targeting glucose consumption and autophagy in myeloma with the novel nucleoside analogue 8 - aminoadenosine .
CONCLUSION : Immunohistochemically confirmed significance of the expression of VEGF in dependence of the CML stage could be of clinical importance in deciding on the timing therapy .
Measuring ouabain - sensitive 22Na efflux and using ouabain - sensitive lactate production as a measure of ATP hydrolysis by the Na + K + pump , it was shown that Nonidet P - 40 greatly decreased the efficiency of the Na + K + pump .
Yet , the net outcome of Ang - 2 functions on tumor angiogenesis is believed to be contextual depending on the local cytokine milieu .
We now show that c - MYC overexpression is sufficient to rescue proliferation and to release the differentiation block imposed by Runx2 .
The AAE and the AAPD are positioned to begin preparation of best practice guidelines that share common language and treatment recommendations for pulp therapies performed by both specialties .
CONCLUSIONS / SIGNIFICANCE : GK rat islets have increased mRNA expression of markers of early islet endothelial cell activation , possibly triggered by several metabolic factors , and also some defense mechanisms .
Expression of G45 or activated PI3K subunit in DeltaG45 cells reversed these abnormalities .
Prevention of hepatic tumor metastases in rats with herpes viral vaccines and gamma - interferon .
RESULTS : Blood vessels initiated growth and elongated from the fat tissue fragments over 15 days .
The positive rates of PTEN mRNA expression were 80 . 4 % ( 45 / 56 ) , 45 . 5 % ( 5 / 11 ) and 32 . 1 % ( 18 / 56 ) in normal mucosa , early and advanced gastric carcinomas , respectively , while 78 . 6 % ( 44 / 56 ) , 44 . 5 % ( 5 / 11 ) and 28 . 6 % ( 16 / 56 ) at the protein level .
Concomitantly , immunostaining for apoptosis inducing factor ( AIF ) showed a time - dependent translocation from the mitochondria to the nucleus .
Excitotoxic damage due to striatal infusion of an NMDA - receptor agonist ( cis - 2 , 4 - methanoglutamate ) was also markedly inhibited ( 71 % ) by injection of the IL - 1ra .
Ultrastructural evidence reveals that at 8 weeks the grafts are composed primarily of collagen and fibroblasts with rough endoplasmic reticulum and vesicles .
No effective medical therapies have been developed sofar to enhance blood flow in the legs of patients with peripheral arterial disease ( PAD ) .
Temporal changes in physiological spaces , protein expression of transporters and enzymes , and enalapril removal were appraised in the metastatic liver tumor model developed from male Wag / Rij rats after the intraportal injection of CC531 colon adenocarcinoma cells ; sham - operated preparations received PBS .
Furthermore , retention of CDK4 in these TA - like pituitary cells synergizes with loss of p27 ( Kip1 ) to induce pituitary adenocarcinomas .
We identified dynein light chain 1 ( DLC1 ) as a physiologic substrate of p21 - activated kinase 1 ( Pak1 ) .
LVI was correctly identified by D2 - 40 ( D2 - 40 + ) in 70 out of 254 tumors ( 28 % ) as compared to 40 tumors ( 16 % ) by routine HE staining ( HE + ) .
L - Carnitine ameliorates methotrexate - induced oxidative organ injury and inhibits leukocyte death .
Treatment of REF or REF expressing full - length T antigen , an N - terminal segment , or T251 - 708 resulted in increased expression of the p53 - responsive MDM2 gene ; apoptosis occurred through a p53 - dependent pathway , as p53 - null cells expressing these T antigens were resistant to 5 - FU - induced apoptosis .
Expression of bFGF on normal human tissues was ubiquitously detected in the basement membranes of all size blood vessels , but was not found in epidermal or epithelial basement membranes of a variety of tissues tested .
MDM2 overexpression was manually classified as > 5 % nuclear staining .
The deficiency in the p53 - mediated regulation of glycolysis and mitochondrial respiration greatly accounts for the deficient respiration of the predominance of aerobic glycolysis in cancer cells ( the Warburg effect ) , while the deficiency in the p53 - modulated antioxidant defense mechanisms contributes to mutagenesis and additionally boosts the carcinogenesis process .
Concentrations achieved in vivo in tumors lead to single - agent anti - tumor activity at non - toxic doses .
CONCLUSIONS : Enoxaparine Na decreased intra - abdominal adhesions , and HBO therapy had no beneficial effect on adhesions .
Altogether , these results suggest that the glycolytic pathway may be an important target for therapeutic intervention to sensitize tumor cells to selectively toxic soluble death ligands or death ligand - expressing cells of the immune system by facilitating the activation of initiator caspase - 8 .
Coronary collateral circulation ( CCC ) was analyzed according to the Rentrop system .
RESULTS : The expression ofVEGF protein was most pronounced in AP ( ANOVA , p = 0 . 033 ) .
Besides the wealth of data elucidating the functional roles of Pten , recent studies suggest a diagnostic significance of PTEN gene alterations as a molecular marker for poor prognosis in anaplastic astrocytomas and anaplastic oligodendrogliomas .
Bone marrow with its unique native properties produced autocrine angiogenicity in the graft .
At the commencement of the study , 29 patients were in chronic phase ( CP ) , 25 in an accelerated phase ( AP ) , and 31 in the blast crisis ( BC ) .
Semaphorins and their cognate receptors , Plexins and neuropilins , are involved in neuronal pathfinding , immune function , and tumor progression through effects on blood vessel growth and cell migration .
It is proposed that the switch from tumor suppressor to oncogene reflects genetic or epigenetic alterations in signaling pathways in tumor cells that alter the readout from the TGFbeta1 pathway .
Taken together , this study indicates that GSE is a well - tolerated and inexpensive natural VEGF inhibitor and could potentially be useful in cancer prevention or treatment .
We further characterized zebrafish alpha2 integrin and discovered that this integrin is highly conserved , especially the I domain .
Clinical implication of expression of cyclooxygenase - 2 and peroxisome proliferator activated - receptor gamma in epithelial ovarian tumours .
Both cell lines showed reduced expression of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteases ( TIMP ) - 1 , while TIMP - 2 and plasminogen activator inhibitor ( PAI ) - I expression was was also reduced in RSVT2 / C cells , thus contributing to their hyperinvasiveness .
uPAR is also coexpressed with caveolin and members of the integrin adhesion receptor superfamily .
p63 , a p53 homologue , is a myoepithelial cell marker in the normal mammary gland but p63 - positive neoplastic cells may be found in up to 11 % of invasive breast carcinomas .
These results suggest that , in some immortalized and transformed cells , blocking the cellular signal transduction might trigger the induction of apoptosis .
Together , these in vitro and in vivo studies are consistent with the concept that Ad vectors may provide a useful strategy for efficient local delivery of VEGF165 in the treatment of ischemic diseases .
Osteopontin ( OPN ) is a secreted adhesive glycophosphoprotein expressed by several cell types .
Perlecan was found to be anti - adhesive for platelets , however after removal of the HS chains attached to perlecan , platelet adhesion and aggregation were supported .
In contrast , osteoprotegerin ( OPG ) inhibits osteoclast development .
A diagnosis of advanced gastric cancer with extensive lymph node metastases and multiple pulmonary metastases was made .
METHODS : Thirty - six New Zealand white rabbits were evaluated in this study .
Three patients developed deep vein thromboses and two heavily pretreated patients developed treatment - related acute myelogenous leukemia or myelodysplasia after 3 . 7 and 12 months of therapy .
Primary human keratinocytes lacking G45 ( DeltaG45 ) showed alterations of basal receptor organization , impaired matrix deposition , and increased migration .
BACKGROUND : M - CSF recruits mononuclear phagocytes which regulate processes such as angiogenesis and metastases in tumors .
Thrombospondin ( TSP ) - 1 , a potent angiogenesis inhibitor , has been shown to exert different biological functions on various cell types .
Several cell types in a tissue secrete IL - 8 .
In this model , UFT showed a strong angiogenesis - inhibitory effect , whereas 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) and doxifluridine were less effective .
In addition , PTEN promoter methylation appeared more frequently in multiple CCMs , including familial cases ( 46 . 7 % ) , than that in single - lesioned CCMs ( 11 . 8 % ; P < 0 . 05 ) .
Such activities of p53 would not only help to prevent cancer development , but might also contribute to non - tumour related roles for p53 , such as in the regulation of longevity .
Consequently , increased adhesion of cancer cells to endothelial cells was observed by the treatment of carcinostatic agents .
An exception is the adaptive immune system where lymphocytes utilize programmed DNA damage to effect antigen receptor diversification .
The remaining wild - type Men1 allele was lost in most tumors from Men1 ( + / - ) mice but was retained in most tumors from p18 ( - / - ) ; Men1 ( + / - ) mice .
Magnolol , a substance purified from the bark of Magnolia officialis , inhibits cell proliferation and induces apoptosis in a variety of cancer cells .
RESULTS : LOH of D10S541 , D10S583 and D10S1687 was found in 37 . 5 % ( 21 / 56 ) of advanced gastric cancers .
Insulin - like growth factor I induces tumor hexokinase RNA expression in cancer cells .
After 7 days , the pellets from animals fed the control diet were infiltrated by abundant branching networks of blood vessels with patent lumen - containing RBCs .
Southern blotting and probing with PCR - synthesized cDNA fragments of the mouse 72 kDa type IV collagenase gene showed that this gene was present in all cells although the structure of this gene in one of the three LTA cell lines differed from that of the other cells .
[ Activation of sterol regulatory element binding protein and its involvement in endothelial cell migration ]
By ruling out cell fusion , we clearly demonstrate the existence of an adult hemangioblast , but the differentiation of marrow stem cells toward the endothelial lineage is an extremely rare event .
Antibodies to PAI - 1 alter the invasive and migratory properties of human tumour cells in vitro .
Then , we demonstrated a mitochondrial membrane potential disruption followed by cytochrome c release that indicates the involvement of mitochondria in this apoptotic signaling pathway .
Coexpression of the human Met receptor and its ligand , hepatocyte growth factor / scatter factor ( HGF / SF ) , in NIH 3T3 fibroblasts causes the cells to become tumorigenic in nude mice .
Overexpression of Glut - 1 glucose transporter in human breast cancer .
To analyze the structure - function relationship for the v - fos protein , we constructed in - frame insertion and deletion mutants of the v - fos gene carried by FBJ - MuSV , and expressed them in chicken primary cells using retrovirus vectors .
Anti - IL - 6 therapy is a new strategy in the inflammatory autoimmune diseases and cancer .
Changes of bile reflux to the stomach was observed endoscopically at 24 weeks as well as the development of gastric mucosal erosions .
They are also known to trigger free radical generation .
The effects of exogenous DCC and netrin - 1 expression were observed together with the respective expression vector transfection .
These results suggest that A5 - 1 will be a potent inhibitor of neovascularization .
Studies , both in human and animal models support the notion that , various angiogenic growth factors and progenitor cells can enhance new blood vessels .
However , monolayer cultures differ greatly from the complex environmental conditions generated in solid tumors that develop inhomogeneous hypoxic and necrotic regions .
RESULTS : The percentage of patients being bone metastases free at 12 mo was 60 % in the zoledronic acid and 10 % in the control group ( p less than 0 . 0005 ) , while the percentages at 18 mo were 20 % and 5 % respectively ( p = 0 . 0002 ) .
Thrombospondins , metallo proteases and thrombospondin receptors messenger RNA and protein expression in different tumour sublines of the Dunning prostate cancer model .
Apoptotic cells were more numerous in RM - 9 - IL12 tumors : 10 . 3 % vs . 1 . 5 % in control ( P = 0 . 001 ) .
Regulation of skin microvasculature angiogenesis , cell migration , and permeability by a specific inhibitor of PKCalpha .
Under physiological conditions , angiogenesis is regulated by local balance between endogenous stimulators and inhibitors of this process .
Recent studies , however , indicate that even under normal physiological conditions certain activities of p53 participate in homeostatic regulation of metabolic processes and that these activities are important for prevention of cancer .
Intriguingly , two recent papers have shed new light into this unexplored field , indicating that p53 plays a key role in TGF - beta - induced growth arrest and , unexpectedly , in the developmental effects of TGF - beta in early embryos .
This suggests that FOXO3a may play a role in LAC suppression by eliciting a protective response to carcinogenic stress .
Our initial investigations show that the naturally occurring organoselenium compound selenomethionine ( SM ) and the synthetic 1 , 4 - phenylenebis ( methylene ) selenocyanate ( p - XSC ) can inhibit human prostate cancer cell viability ; however , in contrast to SM , p - XSC is active at physiologically relevant doses .
Thus the metastatic phenotype of the hybrids was associated with expression of 72 kDa gelatinase .
It suggests that TB4 could be a hypoxia responsive regulator to control tumor cell migration in angiogenesis and tumor metastasis .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : Both bone marrow and peripheral blood samples from 810 gastric cancer patients were collected at the Central Hospital , National Cancer Center ( Tokyo , Japan ) .
Nevertheless , patients who achieved complete remission ( CR ) had a significantly lower median PE level compared to those who did not .
Calretinin .
Four human cervical cancer cell lines were treated for 24 h with various concentration of paclitaxel , and the sensitivity was analysed by an MTT assay .
The tumor apoptosis was observed by electron microscopy .
RESULTS : Overexpression of MDM2 by manual counts was seen in 44 % ( n = 47 ) of the patients .
p - XSC also decreases Akt phosphorylation as well as Akt - specific phosphorylation of the AR .
Thus , CECs , EPCs and EMPs may represent potentially novel methods for evaluating the vascular status of cancer patients .
Pancreatic somatostatin - secreting gangliocytic paraganglioma with lymph node metastases .
The additional function of Pten as a dual - specificity protein phosphatase may also play a role in glioma pathogenesis .
Further investigations of this pathway with regard to preventing peritoneal fibrosis should be performed to maintain the integrity of the peritoneal membrane in peritoneal dialysis patients .
Consistent with a role for NF - kappaB in oncogenesis are observations that inhibition of NF - kappaB alone or in combination with cancer therapies leads to tumor cell death or growth inhibition .
Compared with control animals transfected with LacZ , site - specific transfection of phVEGF resulted in augmented collateral vessel development documented by serial angiography , and improvement in calf blood pressure ratio ( ischemic to normal limb ) , resting and maximum blood flow , and capillary to myocyte ratio .
Ectopic overexpression of junB induced transformation of revertant EMS - 1 - 19 , but failed to transform Rat - 1 cells .
These data provide evidence that adenosine could modulate the migration of colon cancer cells by an HIF - 1alpha / VEGF / IL - 8 - dependent mechanism and that caffeine has the potential to inhibit colon cancer cell growth .
Age alone should not preclude the use of chemotherapy in stage IV colorectal cancer , although the ability to tolerate drug - related toxicity may be a consideration .
Tumor cells adapt to hypoxia by modulating their phenotype .
These results suggest that overexpression of PLD isozymes may play an important role in neoplastic transformation .
All the grafts older than three weeks had complete endothelialization and maintained their patency .
These TGF - beta - resistant cells also exhibited progressively increasing levels of expression of the c - fos and and myc mRNA , and increased resistance to the cytotoxicity of Adriamycin and melphalan .
When MDV was reactivated by treatment of lymphoblastoid cells with 25 micrograms of iododeoxyuridine per ml , the relative levels of the transcripts decreased .
The tumor vascular network is the result of pro - angiogenic and inhibitory factors as well as of the interaction between endothelial cells and extracellular matrix .
In this report , we analyzed the expression of Plexin C1 using immunohistochemistry on sections of primary and matched metastatic lesions from 19 subjects and in a large melanoma tumor microarray .
Additionally , 3 - BrPA treatment significantly impaired lactate production by HepG2 cells , even when glucose was withdrawn from the incubation medium .
The specific enhancement of tumor proliferation in vitro .
Moreover , SMI496 caused cell retraction and cytoskeletal collapse of endothelial cells as well as delayed endothelial cell wound healing .
In contrast , neither VEGF mRNA nor secreted protein was found in uninfected HUVECs or RASMCs or in cells infected with the control vector AdCMV . beta gal ( where beta gal is beta - galactosidase ) .
Regulation of the composition of the extracellular matrix by low density lipoprotein receptor - related protein - 1 : activities based on regulation of mRNA expression .
In this article we have focused on a role of IL - 6 as a prognostic factor in several malignancies such as colorectal cancer , breast cancer , gastric cancer and pancreatic cancer .
Early relapse with distant metastasis often is observed in patients with cancer after resection of the primary tumor .
Participation of p53 cellular tumour antigen in transformation of normal embryonic cells .
Our results indicate that alpha - MSH exerts modulatory effects on the activation of NF - kappa B and AP - 1 , and that it can regulate chemokine secretion in human dermal fibroblasts .
Three vascular grades were defined with appraisal by eye and by Chalkley counting : high ( Chalkley score 7 - 12 ) , medium ( 5 - 6 ) , and low ( 2 - 4 ) .
The grafts are extensively vascularized with capillaries composed of nonfenestrated endothelium ; intercellular junctions are evident at sites of apposition between endothelial cells .
UV - B - induced IL - 8 was constitutively expressed 60 days after irradiation in tumors implanted in mice .
A thorough understanding of the unique metabolism of cancer cells will help to design of more effective drugs targeting metabolic pathways , which will greatly impact the capacity to effectively treat cancer patients .
Immunohistochemical staining for thyroid transcription factor - 1 : a helpful aid in discerning primary site of tumor origin in patients with brain metastases .
Perfusion thresholds were estimated at tumor blood flow values of 69 . 0 + / - 0 . 1 ml / 100 g / min ( estimate + / - standard error ) and of 69 + / - 7 . 1 ml / 100 g / min for the beginning of the decline in regional ATP and glucose content , respectively .
Nevertheless , the repression of VEGF - C was lost in mutant VHL cell lines under hypoxia .
Dose - and time - dependent effects of doxorubicin on cytotoxicity , cell cycle and apoptotic cell death in human colon cancer cells .
In some cancers , syndecan expression has been shown to regulate tumor cell function ( e . g . proliferation , adhesion , and motility ) and serve as a prognostic marker for tumor progression and patient survival .
We have previously shown that massive apoptosis occurs when wild - type p53 or E2F - 1 expression is induced in glioma .
These results suggest that p24delta1 and possibly other p24 family proteins are required for normal insulin biosynthesis and subsequent secretion in pancreatic beta - cells .
No [ 13C ] glucose utilization was detected in H4 spheroids , but uptake of alanine and accumulation of labeled lactate , glutamate and glutamine indicated oxidation via the tricarboxylic acid ( TCA ) cycle .
The findings are discussed in relation to previous morphologic studies , reports of in vitro mast - cell - mediated tumor cytotoxicity , and the role of mast cells in angiogenesis and connective tissue proliferation .
To further elucidate the biological significance of WT1 in leukemic cell growth , we overexpressed exogenous WT1 in murine M1 myeloblastic leukemia cells using the isopropyl - beta - D - thiogalactoside ( IPTG ) - controlled expression system .
Angiopoietin - 2 ( Ang - 2 ) is prominently up - regulated in the host - derived vasculature of most tumors , making it an attractive candidate for antiangiogenic intervention .
BACKGROUND : Neuroblastoma is a childhood tumor that often displays unusual biological behavior .
This event is independent of fibrin formation .
Previous studies have shown that activation of the signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 ( STAT5 ) plays an essential role in leukemogenesis mediated through constitutive activated protein tyrosine kinases ( PTK ) .
AQP1 was expressed in cell membranes and its expression was higher in cancer than that in normal tissues .
WIT003 , as well as pure 20 - HETE , stimulated EC proliferation by approximately 40 % .
It is concluded that curcumin inhibits the adhesion and invasion of MCF - 7 cells through down - regulating the protein expression of uPA via of NF - kappaB activation .
The transforming growth factor beta ( TGFbeta ) family has critical roles in the regulation of fertility .
CONCLUSIONS : Rab5a and Rab7a regulate VEGFR2 trafficking toward early and late endosomes .
Expression of nm23 - H1 gene product in metastatic lymph nodes was also unrelated to patients survival .
The p24 protein family have multiple functions in protein transport in the early secretory pathway .
Here , we show that deleting the Tip30 gene leads to ductal hyperplasia in mouse mammary glands early in life and extensive mammary hyperplasia with age .
Importantly , Bax and Bak were rapidly translocated to the mitochondria 30 min after betulin treatment .
Latency was markedly increased and occurrence decreased in the p190 del C lines as compared with nonmutated p190 BCR / ABL transgenics .
We previously reported that a single dose of ethanol ( 1 . 4 g / kg ) , yielding a blood alcohol concentration of 100 mg / dl , significantly impairs angiogenesis in murine wounds , despite adequate levels of VEGF , suggesting direct effects of ethanol on endothelial cell signaling ( 40 ) .
Rapid endothelial cell migration and inhibition of thrombosis are critical for the resolution of denudation injuries to the vessel wall .
Moreover , intramuscular p75 ( NTR ) gene delivery impairs neovascularization and blood flow recovery in a mouse model of limb ischemia .
The overexpression of Tsg101 resulted in increased phosphorylation of the epidermal growth factor receptor and downstream activation of MAP kinases .
OSCC sublines were established from a GFP - expressing parental cell line , GSAS , and designated GSAS / N3 and N5 according to the in vivo passage number after cervical lymph node metastasis by a serial orthotopic transplantation model .
Counteracting islet endothelial cell inflammation might be one way to ameliorate / prevent beta - cell dysfunction in type 2 diabetes .
Further investigation using inhibition or genetic deletion of Erbb2 in vitro revealed reduced Cdc25a levels and increased S - phase arrest in UV - irradiated cells lacking Erbb2 activity .
Similar results were also obtained with respect to 5 - FU .
The expression of TIMP1 suggests that the anti - proteolytic stimuli may be preponderant in p63 - positive carcinomas .
This is the first description of GPG in this location and the first endocrinologically active GPG .
To address this , the Severe Chronic Neutropenia International Registry ( SCNIR ) used its large database of chronic neutropenia patients treated with G - CSF to determine the incidence of malignant myeloid transformation in the two disorders , and its relationship to treatment and to other patient characteristics .
We have shown that Arf6 and its effector AMAP1 ( DDEF1 , DEF1 , ASAP1 and centaurin beta4 ) are abnormally overexpressed in some breast cancers and used for their invasion and metastasis .
Expression of Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 in primary tumors and lymph node metastases in oral squamous cell carcinoma .
Expression of the cytolytic effectors perforin , granzyme B9 , and the granule membrane protein TIA1 were examined in 24 putative NK - cell lymphomas , 18 postthymic T - cell lymphomas ( one case CD8 + CD56 + and three anaplastic large cell lymphomas ( ALCL ) , three T - lymphoblastic lymphomas , and 20 B - cell lymphomas .
Transporters , enzymes , and enalapril removal in a rat ( CC531 - induced ) liver metastatic model .
The effect of swainsonine ( active compound of locoweed and a potential anticancer drug ) on vascular development showed no differences in sinusoidal diameters at 7 weeks , but a decrease in capillary density was noted .
Glucose metabolism and amino acid uptake of the brain tumours correlated significantly ( r = 0 . 71 , P < 0 . 001 ) .
In this work , we show that LPA stimulates invasion of primary ovarian cancer cells , but not ovarian epithelial or borderline ovarian tumor cells , although these benign cells indeed respond to LPA in cell migration .
In this study , we have evaluated the inhibitory effect of UFT against RENCA cell - induced angiogenesis by a dorsal air sac assay .
However , current data do not conclusively show evidence of angiogenesis per se in these conditions , despite ( for example ) the presence of high levels of VEGF and Ang - 2 .
The mechanism of TP induction is not yet completely clear , but TNF , IL10 and other cytokines have been clearly shown to induce its expression .
However , additional transfection of TrkA into SY5Y - p75 cells resulted in a significantly reduced rate of apoptosis even in the absence of NGF .
The rationale for therapeutic angiogenesis is discussed , together with the most recent results from randomised trials in patients with peripheral arterial disease .
Positron emission tomography in a case of intracranial hemangiopericytoma .
However , tumor incidence was lower and life span was significantly longer in WAP - mutCK1delta / WAP - T bi - transgenic animals .
We also report that SPARC arrests monomeric collagen - supported smooth muscle cell proliferation in the late G1 - phase of the cell cycle in the absence of an effect on cell shape or on levels of cyclin - dependent kinase inhibitors .
Regulation of tumor angiogenesis by thrombospondin - 1 .
After 1 drug - free week , the second course was administered with 120 mg / body / day of TS - 1 for 4 weeks .
Nonetheless , anti - VEGF therapy has enhanced the arsenal of anticancer therapies and has provided new insights into the biology of malignancy .
He noted that wounds , like tumors , secrete VPF , causing blood vessels to leak plasma fibrinogen , which stimulates blood vessel growth and provides a matrix on which they can spread .
Increased serum levels of vascular endothelial growth factor in patients with renal cell carcinoma .
The present study provides direct evidence on the role of cell morphology in EC migration , and will help us to understand the mechanisms of EC migration during angiogenesis and wound healing .
PLAG1 overexpression in salivary glands has previously been shown to result in salivary gland tumors in 100 % of mice within 5 weeks after birth .
The specific isoform ( s ) of PKC responsible for each of these changes has not been previously identified .
18F - FDG and 123I - IMT uptake was quantified as ratios between the uptake by the tumour and contralateral regions of reference .
Multivariate analysis showed that cooccurrence of reduced expression of alpha - catenin and overexpression of p53 was an independent factor indicating lymph node metastases .
The authors report on a case series of 13 patients with recurrent heavily pretreated malignant glioma that was treated with the combination of bevacizumab and irinotecan .
The latter phenomenon was accompanied by an increase in the mdr - 1 mRNA expression , cellular glutathione level , and glutathione S - transferase activity .
The inhibition of cultured myoblast differentiation by the simian virus 40 large T antigen occurs after myogenin expression and Rb up - regulation and is not exerted by transformation - competent cytoplasmic mutants .
The truncated fos protein that contains only part of the central region is not phosphorylated in chicken embryo fibroblasts , indicating that phosphorylation of the fos protein is not necessary for the transforming activity .
MATERIAL AND METHODS : Human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVEC ) were treated with cisplatin and endothelial cell migration analyzed by fluorescence and scratch - wound migration assay .
Biomaterials such as Surgisis ( Cook Biotech Incorporated , West Lafayette , IN , USA ) , which are derived from natural ECM , provide the extracellular components necessary to direct the healing response , allow for the proliferation of new , healthy tissue and restore tissue integrity to the damaged site .
The putative metastasis suppressor genes , NME1 ( nm23 - 1 ) and NME2 ( nm23 - 2 ) , were examined in a model system we developed to approximate the dissemination of melanoma from a primary skin tumor .
The onset of their differentiation was ascertained by the deposition of marker pteridine pigments .
In aging females , the overexpression of Tsg101 seemed to increase the susceptibility of mammary epithelia toward malignant transformation .
Interestingly , under normal conditions muscle cells express only a approximately 5 . 5 - kb type II HK RNA transcript .
As a result , cells are protected from apoptosis and senescence while becoming highly sensitive to glucose deprivation .
In contrast , ectopic TSP - 1 expression in SiHa cells has little effect on the invasive ability of the NIH3T3 cells .
Mechanisms for the magnolol - induced cell death of CGTH W - 2 thyroid carcinoma cells .
Concordance in topo I staining between primary and lymph node metastases was observed in 33 of 42 cases ( P = . 029 ) .
Topotecan - and gimatecan induced moderate up - regulation of TRAIL - R1 and - R2 which resulted in a different cell response to the combination in androgen - independent cells ( DU - 145 and PC - 3 ) .
Moreover , this study is the first in vivo report of the radiation - induced p53 apoptotic response in patients and suggests that this apoptotic response is not immunologically silent .
( 2 ) .
TRAP - activated platelets stimulated a dose - dependent increase in SKOV3 cell invasion .
Endothelial cell migration was attenuated by treatment of cells with GM6001 , a non - specific inhibitor of MMPs , or by a selective anti - MMP2 antibody .
To test this we generated Nestin - Bmi - 1 - GFP transgenic mice .
Chronic inflammation and cancer are intimately associated .
A partial response ( PR ) was obtained after the first course with regression of multiple pulmonary metastases .
We found no additive or synergistic effect when the two agents were combined .
It was correlated with the laboratory ( Hb , WBC and platelet counts , and the percentage of blasts ) and clinical parameters ( organomegaly , duration of CP , AP , and BC ) of disease progression .
The EGF receptor gene is amplified and over - expressed in several human tumors , suggesting that increased concentrations of the proto - oncogene leads to constitutive activity similar to that seen with oncogene erb B .
Vitamin E inhibits experimental carcinogenesis and tumour angiogenesis .
RhoA activation promotes transformation and loss of thyroid cell differentiation interfering with thyroid transcription factor - 1 activity .
Our data align osteonectin with other matrix - components and adhesion molecules in affecting potential metastatic spreading of transformed cells .
Reduction of TCF activity in these cells attenuates their ability to form brain and bone metastases in mice , independently of effects on tumor growth in the lungs .
One of the most fundamental is the ability to act as essential growth checkpoint that protects cells against cellular transformation .
This collection of reviews at the front - edge of scientific knowledge focuses on host - tumor cell interactions , the disastrous consequences they can produce and approaches the ways to break up these cellular conspiracies , to leave the tumor cells unattended and vulnerable .
Some vitamins like beta - carotene , retinoic acid , alpha - tocopheryl succinate , and vitamin D also regulate the expressions of certain oncogenes and cellular genes .
Constitutively active RhoA ( FRTL - 5 - RhoA QL cells ) exhibited a fibroblast - like phenotype with organized actin fibers , whereas cells expressing the RhoA negative dominant phenotype ( FRTL - 5 - RhoA N19 cells ) present a rounded morphology and lose normal cytoskeletal architecture .
KISS1 transcript expression remained an independent prognosticator in multivariate analyses ( P = 0 . 017 ) .
Patients with hyperfibrinogenemia showed worse clinical outcome in T2 gastric cancer , however , there was no correlation of plasma fibrinogen level with prognosis in T3 / T4 gastric cancer .
Reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) produced in the course of cellular oxidative phosphorylation , and by activated phagocytic cells during oxidative bursts , exceed the physiological buffering capacity and result in oxidative stress .
Expressions of KISS1 mRNA and protein were significantly higher in low TNM stages of NSCLC ( I - II ) compared to more advanced stages ( III - IV ) ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
It was shown that large T - antigen showed associated kinase activity , although none of our results could unambiguously demonstrate an intrinsic kinase activity of this protein .
Subsequently this activity was separated into TGFbeta and TGFalpha an EGF receptor ligand .
Simultaneous and continuous exposure of HT - 29 and HMVEC - d cells to low concentrations SN - 38 + L - OHP + 5 - FU for 144 h showed a strong antagonism and an unfavorable dose - reduction index .
Six patients ( 46 % ) had a clinical response .
We did not found any mutation in de novo BCR - ABL + ALLs or lymphoid BC CML .
Recruited pericytes were desmin and NG2 positive and predominately alpha - smooth muscle actin negative , indicative of a more mature pericyte phenotype .
To clarify the role of Ang - 2 for angiogenesis and tumor growth in a definite genetic experimental setting , the present study was aimed at comparatively studying the growth of different tumors in wild - type and Ang - 2 - deficient mice .
Furthermore , we found that RASSF1C over - expression enhances T47D cell invasion / migration in vitro .
Analysis of the stability of HAH - cortisol showed that it was stable at pH 7 . 4 and broke down rapidly ( t1 / 2 15 min ) at pH 4 . 8 at 37 degrees C .
Furthermore , we found a significant association between tumour location , tumour grade and node status and the methylation status of the APC gene ( p < = 0 . 05 ) .
Thus , angiogenesis is a physiologic event in normal postnatal murine skin , apparently is dictated by the hair follicle , and appears to be required for normal anagen development .
In addition , 15d - PGJ ( 2 ) suppressed tumour necrosis factor - alpha - induced - COX - 2 expression , confirming the reciprocal correlation between COX - 2 and PPARgamma .
BMECs transfected with SV40T ( BMSVTs ) had an extended lifespan , but eventually succumbed to crisis .
Androgen signaling through androgen receptor ( AR ) is critical for prostate tumorigenesis .
PTTG overexpression correlated with lymph node metastasis ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
RESULTS : Cell clones expressing elevated levels of p75 showed a high degree of apoptosis even in 10 % serum - supplemented medium .
Careful selection of patients may be necessary before designing therapeutic strategies using either p53 or E2F - 1 as a therapeutic tools for glioma patients .
However , MKN - 28 , MKN - 45 , MKN - 74 , and SNU16 cells did not express membrane CXCR4 .
CONCLUSION : Our results might support the idea that hyperfibrinogenemia can augment lymphatic and hematogeneous metastasis of advanced gastric cancer , which is major determinant of the prognosis in T2 gastric cancer .
The therapeutic efficacy of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS was determined by monitoring tumor volume , survival rate , and degree of neovascularization after treatment in these models .
The impact of elevated VEGF expression on the course of chronic myeloid leukaemia is unknown .
In this review , this evidence is surveyed together with evidence from analogous situations , such as tumour cell migration and invasiveness .
Furthermore , we found that p130 ( Cas ) , but not paxillin , recruited Crk to the nascent focal complex .
In an effort to dissect the mechanisms of GR - mediated breast epithelial cell survival , we now examine the molecular events downstream of GR activation .
Swift elimination of undesirable cells is an important feature in tumour suppression and immunity .
Treatment with anti - Fas , however , significantly decreased Fas - c - erbB2 and Fas - c - met association .
These results show a remarkable selectivity of expression and function for laminin - 332 G45 in human SCC tumorigenesis and implicate it as a specific target for anticancer therapy .
We conclude that Oxygent increases TET epithelial PtO ( 2 ) , improves epithelial metabolism , does not impair angiogenesis , and tends to slow cartilage tissue formation .
U . S . A .
We have previously reported that dihydroartemisinin is found to have a potent ability in influencing lymphatic endothelial cell migration and tube formation .
9E3 / CEF4 mRNA was expressed in chicken peripheral blood monocytes , and its expression was stimulated by incubation of the monocytes with lipopolysaccharide or phorbol myristic acetate .
The current results may have an impact on the effectiveness of clinical immunotherapeutic treatment protocols , because immune effector cells may not be able to enter tumor tissue .
Seventy - five patients underwent biopsies of carcinomas metastatic to the brain .
A cohort of unspecified mesodermal cells differentiates into primitive endothelial cells , which migrate to and occupy positions within the stereotypical blueprint of the primitive vasculature .
Systemic treatment with L - NAME inhibited growth of adenocarcinoma significantly but was accompanied by impaired renal function .
In mice , xenografts of human glioblastoma U87MG , which has decreased expression of ING4 , grow significantly faster and have higher vascular volume fractions than control tumours .
Expression of EphA2 and E - cadherin in colorectal cancer : correlation with cancer metastasis .
Collectively , hypoxia conditioning induced tumor cell migration by TB4 expression - dependent HIF - 1alpha stabilization .
Because proteolytic degradation of the extracellular matrix is a critical component of endothelial invasion in angiogenesis , it is logical to assume that PSMA participates in matrix degradation .
Neurovascular effects of CD47 signaling : promotion of cell death , inflammation , and suppression of angiogenesis in brain endothelial cells in vitro .
Villani et al . define a key role for the IGF regulatory protein Igfbp2 in a genetic model of basal cell carcinogenesis driven by targeted constitutive activation of hedgehog signaling .
It is concluded that its action is targeted to tumor neovasculature and the mechanism is inhibition of tumor angiogenesis .
Coexpression of keratin and vimentin was found in approximately 20 % of the tumors regardless of menopausal status .
CONCLUSION : A study of both alpha - catenin and p53 expression may be helpful to predict lymph node metastases in early gastric cancer .
METHODS : Receptor proteins were visualized by immunohistochemistry on 5 - mum sections of paraffin - embedded tissue .
Visual acuities were stable or improved in 86 % ( n = 18 ) .
In summary , these novel studies identify and characterize a marked glucose - modulated activation response of the type II hexokinase gene to hypoxic conditions within highly glycolytic hepatoma cells , a property that may help assure that such cells exhibit a growth and survival advantage over their parental cells of origin .
Reduced oncogenicity of p190 Bcr / Abl F - actin - binding domain mutants .
HYPOTHESIS : This study was designed to compare coronary collateral circulation ( CCC ) in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy ( PDR ) with that in patients without DR .
Hypoxia rapidly induced both JNK1 and p38 activity in these cells .
Such repression activity was totally absent with mutant pm490 / 1 / 5A .
Scanning electron microscopy of vascular casts was used to investigate three experimental models of neovascularization .
BACKGROUND : CDC4 / FBXW7 , encoding a ubiquitin ligase , maps to 4q32 and has been implicated as a tumor suppressor gene and therapeutic target in many tumor types .
Our results suggest that blood flow limits glucose supply to tumor tissue at much higher flow rates than in normal brain which , in turn , is associated with a decrease in tumor glucose utilization .
Under conditions mimicking the injection environment , the lipoplex - serum interaction was strongly dependent on helper lipid and ionic strength : lipoplexes prepared in 150 mM NaCl or lipoplexes with high ( greater than 33 mol % ) cholesterol were found to aggregate immediately .
p53 targets involved in cell - cycle arrest and apoptosis showed the same mode of regulation , indicating that , in vivo , both are activated simultaneously .
Furthermore , we found that the potentiating effect of miR - BHRF1 - 2 on miR - BHRF1 - 3 synthesis can be reproduced with simple expression plasmids , provided that both miRNAs are processed from the same transcript .
METHODS : Six patients with lymphoma twice underwent [ 18F ] FDG - PET imaging : once after fasting overnight and once during euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp .
Through this domain , Evi - 1 physically interacts with Smad3 , an intracellular mediator of TGF - beta signaling , thereby suppressing the transcriptional activity of Smad3 .
Here , we investigated the expression of Ets - 1 during reendothelialization .
METHODS : LOH of epigenetic microsatellites of PTEN ( D10S541 , D10S583 and D10S1687 ) in advanced gastric cancer was detected by PCR - SSCP .
These studies suggest that Hedgehog signaling regulates melanoma related vascular formation and function .
Glucose consumption by drug - resistant myeloma cells was unaffected by 8 - aminoadenosine , and accordingly , no activation of autophagy was observed .
Animals were sacrificed at 3 - week intervals from 0 to 39 weeks after treatments began .
We postulate that endoscopic observation is valuable in investigating the development of gastric carcinoma , and microvascular structure and lectin binding pattern may be useful to demonstrate the mechanism of growth of gastric carcinoma .
In addition , the silencing of DCC expression may contribute to the escape of endometrial cancer cells from a DCC - regulated apoptotic program , thereby promoting malignant phenotypes .
Diabetic foot wounds are consequences of the neuropathy and the small and large vessel disease that complicate diabetes .
VM - targeting strategies for ovarian cancer include anti - VEGF - a treatment , knocking down the EphA2 gene and using antibodies against human MMPs if the tumor is VM positive .
There is accumulating evidence that the tissue damage associated with chronic wounds is initiated and propagated by an inappropriately excessive inflammatory response .
The interaction of virally derived and endogenous cellular proteins converges in deregulation of cell cycle progression and appears to be critical for the development of cervical cancers .
METHODS : A clinicopathologic data review was performed in 60 patients with PTMC treated with total thyroidectomies involving neck dissections .
Here we report that the distal region of the hepatoma type II hexokinase promoter displays consensus motifs for hypoxia - inducible factor ( HIF - 1 ) that overlap E - box sequences known to be related in other gene promoters to glucose response .
The protein expression was determined by Western blot analysis .
PURPOSE : To report on bevacizumab treatment for radiation retinopathy affecting the macula .
With this retrovirus , LMP1 was shown to stimulate the proliferation of primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts ( MEF cells ) .
The frequency of COX - 2 and PPARgamma detection was significantly increased and decreased as lesions progressed to carcinoma , respectively .
Apoptosis ( programmed cell death ) regulates cell population size .
Invasion of adjacent organs was more frequent in the RSCM group than in the RSCB group and the Ki - 67 labeling index of the tumors was significantly higher in the former group .
PP mesh resulted in more fibrous encapsulation and stiffness than PF and PS prostheses .
In a three - dimensional model of breast carcinogenesis , disorganized , proliferative transformed breast epithelial cells express significantly higher expression of angiogenic genes compared with their polarized , growth - arrested nonmalignant counterparts .
Collectively , these data suggest that the DSCR1s promoter directs vascular bed - specific expression in activated endothelium and that DSCR - 1s serves to dampen the host response to infection .
In 20 RCC patients , serum samples were obtained separately from the bilateral renal veins .
The role of retinal microglial cells ( MCs ) in age - related macular degeneration ( AMD ) is unclear .
Using GC cell lines we show that C / EBPbeta can regulate the expression of endogenous COX - 2 and transactivate the promoter of the COX - 2 gene , depending on its methylation status .
Here , we demonstrate that Ang1 halts the ability of VEGF to induce the phosphorylation - dependent redistribution of the adhesion molecule VE - cadherin , thereby rescuing the endothelial barrier function .
These findings demonstrate that Src can activate STAT signaling pathways and raise the possibility that Stat3 contributes to oncogenesis by Src .
Another cell adhesion protein , beta 1 - integrin was not affected by E - cadherin expression .
They are important components of the growth regulatory pathways in normal cells .
Effects of repeated low - level X radiation on functional microvascular changes in hamster cheek pouch epithelium during and following carcinogenesis by 7 , 12 - dimethylbenz [ a ] anthracene ( DMBA ) were studied .
Additional mechanistic studies further suggested that the ability of circulating cancer cells to extravasate to surrounding lung tissues was linked to the activation of the vascular endothelium via one or more Galpha ( i ) - coupled receptors .
Effect of U - 995 , a potent shark cartilage - derived angiogenesis inhibitor , on anti - angiogenesis and anti - tumor activities .
H - ras mutations in human pituitary carcinoma metastases .
Diabetes impairs endothelial function and reparative neovascularization .
Consistent with these findings is the induction under hypoxic conditions of the HIF - 1 protein .
Thrombin and SFLLR activated progelatinase A ( MMP - 2 ) in the culture medium of human umbilical cord endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) .
These chemicals differ from the direct - acting mutagens tested previously .
Taken together , these results demonstrate that overexpression of TIMP - 3 can inhibit angiogenesis and associated tumor growth , and that the antiangiogenic effects of TIMP - 3 appear to be mediated through the inhibition of functional capillary morphogenesis .
HTPB delayed lung metastasis of 4T1 mouse breast cancer cells .
However , recent identification of a high - Km glucose phosphorylating activity in a range of cancer cells prompted us to characterize glucose phosphorylating enzymes of cancer cells at the molecular level .
DNA microarray analysis of treated tumor xenografts revealed significantly decreased expression of genes regulating glucose and thymidine metabolism and revealed changes in apoptotic genes , suggesting that the imaging tracers FDG , 3 - deoxy - 3 - [ ( 18 ) F ] fluorothymidine , and annexin V could serve as potential imaging biomarkers for RAF265 therapy monitoring .
Activated platelets enhance SKOV3 human ovarian cancer cell invasion through Matrigel and increase the amount of uPA and VEGF secreted into SKOV3 cell conditioned medium .
Because thrombin cleavage of OPN results in substantial enhancement of OPN ' s adhesive properties , and because VPF / VEGF promotes increased microvascular permeability leading to activation of the extrinsic coagulation pathway , we also investigated whether VPF / VEGF facilitates thrombin cleavage of OPN in vivo .
Here , we investigate the role of TSP - 1 in tumor - stroma reaction , which is mainly characterized by fibroblast activation to create a permissive microenvironment for tumor progression .
Surprisingly , despite the expression of KSHV latent genes in the vast majority of tumor cells , specifically targeting only the few vGPCR - expressing cells in established tumors resulted in tumor regression .
hADA3 binds selectively to the high - risk HPV E6 proteins and only to immortalization - competent E6 mutants .
PURPOSE : To optimize the method of treating choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) associated with age - related macular degeneration ( AMD ) .
The median number of therapies applied , including initial surgery , was 5 ( range 3 - 7 therapies ) .
Here we examined expression of type IV collagenases in parental LTA and NIH 3T3 cells ( with and without ras ) and four metastatic LTA x NIH 3T3 hybrids ( also with and without ras ) .
Activation of the myc gene may play a role in transformation by promoting growth of the cells bearing the rearranged chromosomes .
The kinase reactions showed preference for ATP and MgCl2 instead of GTP or MnCl2 .
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of doxorubicin in Hct - 116 human colon carcinoma cells in order to clarify if a time / concentration range for optimal doxorubicin - induced apoptosis exists .
c - Ski , originally identified as a proto - oncogene product , is an important negative regulator of transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - beta family signaling through interaction with Smad2 , Smad3 , and Smad4 .
Molecular factors which implement this triad of events are reviewed , as are several signal transduction components which may regulate them .
Increases in VEGF could contribute to the blood - brain barrier breakdown and inflammation observed after seizures .
Molecular events leading to enhanced glucose transport in Rous sarcoma virus - transformed cells .
The virus - altered cells continued to proliferate in the presence of high levels of extracellular calcium but exhibited alterations in normal keratinocyte terminal differentiation that appear to be specific to the particular oncogene .
Here we present PU24FCl , a representative of the first class of designed Hsp90 inhibitors .
We produced a transgenic mouse line that expresses simian virus ( SV40 ) transforming sequences under control of the 1 . 4 kb tyrosinase - related protein 1 ( TRP - 1 ) promoter , targeting expression of T antigen ( Tag ) to the RPE .
The various complex interactions of TP give it an essential role in cellular functioning and , hence , it is an ideal target in cancer therapy .
Macrophages are essential mediators of inflammation and wound healing .
This has been suggested as one of the mechanisms to explain the mammography paradox for women aged 40 - 49 years .
In contrast to the results obtained with c - jun , the levels of junB mRNA and protein were found to be reduced two - or threefold in revertant EMS - 1 - 19 .
Furthermore , specific downregulation of either caspase - 9 , Bax , or Bak by siRNA effectively reduced PARP cleavage and caspase - 3 activation .
A novel putative tyrosine kinase receptor with oncogenic potential .
Thus , neither the p53 - binding region nor the Bcl - 2 homology region of T antigen was sufficient to prevent cell death induced by the DNA - damaging agent .
Additionally , doxycycline diminishes the proliferation of this breast cancer cell line and also decreases its gelatinolytic activity , as determined by gel zymography .
In addition , the microtubule - destabilizing agents cause prominent changes in endothelial cell morphology , an action associated with rapid vascular collapse in vivo .
Growth of both histologic types of gene - modified tumor cells in severe combined immunodeficiency ( SCID ) mice was significantly restricted when compared with controls .
This was markedly suppressed upon simultaneous injection of anti - VEGF polyclonal antibodies with the supernatant .
The expressions of 14 - 3 - 3zeta and beta - catenin were detected by western blotting , double labeling immunofluorescence , confocal laser scanning microscopy and immunohistochemistry .
Patients with rectal cancer had greater topo I expression than those with colon tumors ( P = . 029 ) .
The clinical significance of MTSS1 will also be discussed .
[ Effects of Epstein - Barr virus latent membrane protein 1 ( EBV - LMP1 ) on related factors of metastasis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line CNE1 ] .
In vitro experiments confirmed that an increase in glucose availability induced Akt phosphorylation under reoxygenated conditions and consequently up - regulated HIF - 1alpha translation .
Nicked { beta } 2 - glycoprotein I binds angiostatin 4 . 5 ( plasminogen kringle 1 - 5 ) and attenuates its antiangiogenic property .
In test group , the external maxillary artery bundle was passed through the marrow cavity of the bone .
P18 increased the production of CD95 ligand and reduced the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 by the endothelial cells in vivo .
These results show that magnolol initiates apoptosis via the cytochrome - c / caspase 3 / PARP / AIF and PTEN / Akt / caspase 9 / PARP pathways and necrosis via PARP activation .
Patients have been treated between January 1996 and October 1997 .
The eph gene encodes a putative receptor tyrosine kinase for an as yet unknown ligand .
Furthermore , we showed that glycogen was depleted in a low glucose medium , but conserved under hypoxic conditions .
In contrast , CH - 11 binds to Fas , but is unable to transmit the death signal beyond the plasma membrane suggesting a block at the DISC ( death inducing signaling complex ) .
The review is focused on the participation of polymorphonuclear granulocytes ( neutrophils ) in development and spreading of a tumor .
TGF alpha was studied with the appropriate antibody .
To address this question , we used the proteomic approach of tandem affinity purification to identify cellular proteins that are in complex with E7 , and identified the 600 - kDa protein , p600 , as a binding partner of E7 .
Recently , it has become apparent that microRNAs ( miRNAs ) also contribute to EBV ' s oncogenic properties ; recombinant EBVs that lack the BHRF1 miRNA cluster display a reduced ability to transform B lymphocytes in vitro .
Our results provide the first evidence of the abilities of the LMP1 gene , acting alone , to effectively induce the proliferation of primary MEF cells and of its cooperativity with another cellular oncogene in transforming primary cells .
DMI is suggested to inhibit the growth of Ca3 / 7 cells and to affect GR - mediated transcription .
Interestingly , FRTL - 5 - RhoA QL cells express less Tg and TTF - 1 than wild - type FRTL - 5 ( FRTL - 5 - vector ) or FRTL - 5 - RhoA N19 , suggesting a loss at the differentiation stage .
A summary is made of recent advances in the understanding of IL - 18 structure , processing , receptor expression and immunoregulatory functions .
Although implicated as a tumor suppressor , its role in sporadic cancer is uncertain .
The biological effect of the perfluorocarbon - based artificial oxygen carrier ( Oxygent ) was investigated in tissue - engineered trachea ( TET ) construction .
Effects of spironolactone on corneal allograft survival in the rat .
Laminin - 332 is critical for squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) tumorigenesis , but targeting it for cancer therapy has been unachievable due to key role of laminin - 332 in promoting tissue integrity .
Metastasis and tumor angiogenesis are invasive phenomena and share many common properties at the physiological level and some similarities at the molecular level .
The ability of CLA to inhibit angiogenesis may contribute to its efficacy as a chemopreventive agent .
Two of 12 cell lines formed xenografts in mice .
Paclitaxel , a potent anti - neoplastic agent , has been found to be effective against several tumours , including cervical cancer .
Twenty grafts without bone marrow were implanted as controls .
Some responders with congenital neutropenia and Shwachman - Diamond syndrome ( SDS ) have developed myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia ( MDS / AML ) , which raises the question of the role of G - CSF in pathogenesis .
However , other experimental data indicate that NF - kappaB can play a tumor suppressor role in certain settings and that it can be important in promoting an apoptotic signal downstream of certain cancer therapy regimens .
BMSVTs exhibited a partially transformed phenotype , demonstrating growth factor independence , altered antigen expression and forming tiny , infrequent colonies in vitro .
This finding may be explained by a stimulatory effect of GM - CSF and IL - 3 on ara - C phosphorylating enzymes and a more rapid incorporation of ara - CTP into the DNA of leukemic blasts .
Both cis - 9 , trans - 11 and trans - 10 , cis - 12 CLA isomers were effective in inhibiting angiogenesis in vitro in a dose - dependent fashion .
Radiologic defect area measurement results at 0 , 4 , and 16 weeks were compared between the groups .
IL - 17F deficiency inhibits small intestinal tumorigenesis in ApcMin / + mice .
These observations , combined with new molecular insights with HIF - 1alpha and c - myc , have rekindled an interest in this important phenotype .
NaF and Group I compounds induced internucleosomal DNA fragmentation in HL - 60 cells , whereas Group II compounds were inactive even in the presence of NaF .
John ' s wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) , has emerged as key player not only in the antidepressant activity of the plant but also as an inhibitor of bacteria lymphocyte and tumor cell proliferation , and matrix proteinases .
Patients with tumors demonstrating concurrent methylation of more than half of their genes demonstrated significantly poorer survival and earlier recurrence .
TSP interacts with a number of proteases and receptors and in this way inhibits stimulation of angiogenesis .
Further , we implemented a noninvasive molecular imaging technique to facilitate the assessment of the metastatic process .
Recent studies revealed that p21WAF1 protects cells from apoptosis by arresting them in G1 and further binds to pro - caspase - 3 , preventing its activation and thus , inhibiting the apoptotic cascade .
METHODS : The expression of DCC and netrin - 1 in normal endometrial glands and in cancer cell lines was examined by RT - PCR and immunohistochemistry .
From a functional perspective , we observe that caffeine also significantly inhibits the A3 receptor - stimulated cell migration of colon cancer cells .
Lymph node metastasis is one of the most important prognostic factors in various types of cancers , including endometrial cancer .
In all cases , there was complete concordance between the effects of hypoxia and AdCA5 .
Endothelial cell proliferation plays a pivotal role in the process of angiogenesis .
The rabbits were sacrificed and the specimens were procured at 3 days , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 and 6 weeks after surgery for histological observation , Chinese ink perfusion and CD34 immunohistochemistry .
In contrast , both HER2 ( 4 / 12 ; 33 % ) and B ( 1 ) R ( 1 / 12 ; 8 . 3 % ) showed a low expression in invasive gallbladder carcinomas .
In contrast , the growth of tumors requires constant vascular growth and remodeling in order for solid tumors to grow beyond 1 - 2 mm ( 3 ) in size .
RASMC proliferation was unaffected by infection with AdCMV . VEGF165 .
Small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors offer the potential to inhibit more than one kinase and impede tumor growth by multiple mechanisms .
We show here that p10 , which arises from the use of an alternative splice donor site within intron 1 , is conserved in the mouse genome and is widely expressed in mouse tissues .
Ras p21 onco - protein in the sera of mice carrying an experimentally induced tumor and in human cancer patients .
Conditioned medium from progestin - treated breast cancer cells stimulates endothelial cell proliferation in the absence though not in the presence of antibody to TSP - 1 , indicating that TSP - 1 secreted by breast cancer cells could be pro - angiogenic .
Though less efficient in energy production , it ensures continuous supply of energy and phosphometabolites for biosynthesis enabling metastatic and less vascularized cancer cells to proliferate even under hypoxic conditions .
The short - term response of Swiss 3T3 cells to an activator of protein kinase C also appeared to be independent of growth state , since the 50 % effective dose for PDBu inhibition of EGF binding to its receptor was approximately 7 nM for both growth conditions .
Stimulation of angiogenesis by adipose tissue was nearly abolished by bevacizumab , which specifically targets human VEGF .
Abilities of adhesion , migration , and invasion of CNE1 cell were induced by LMP1 .
Moreover , computed tomography ( CT ) showed a complete regression of the extensive lymph node and diffuse lung metastases , for a complete response ( CR ) .
Tumorigenic hybrid derivatives contained lower numbers of chromosomes than the tetraploid parental hybrids .
Furthermore , interaction of fibroblasts and high invasive melanoma cells with soluble recombinant DC - 9 resulted in enhanced expression of MMP - 1 and MMP - 2 .
One additional event that appears to play a role in tumor progression is integration of HPV DNA into the host genome .
Collectively , our results provide strong biochemical and genetic evidence of a central role for alpha2beta1 integrin in experimental and developmental angiogenesis .
Activation - induced cytidine deaminase in antibody diversification and chromosome translocation .
Histological examination of ovarian corrosion casts indicated that NS - 398 inhibited the establishment of luteal capillary vessels following the injection of hCG .
In T - cell ALL with t ( 10 ; 14 ) translocation , the HOX 11 gene is deregulated .
This study indicates that the simultaneous presence of ITC and VEGFR - 1 expression at premetastatic sites is clinically significant for disease progression .
uPA and uPAR levels were not significantly associated with tumour staging or survival .
Injection of indomethacin , a nonselective COX inhibitor , on the day of ovulation and the following day decreased serum levels of progesterone , as did injection of the selective COX - II inhibitor NS - 398 .
The efficacy of the approach may be critically dependent on the intrinsic susceptibility to apoptosis of different tumors .
This effect appears to be mediated , in part , by decreased expression of vascular endothelial ( VE ) - cadherin by endothelial cells in the presence of TIMP - 3 as seen both in an in vitro assay and in TIMP - 3 - overexpressing tumors .
Transformation of mammary epithelial cells ( MECs ) from the normal to the neoplastic stage requires the dysregulation of tumor suppressor genes and proto - oncogenes .
Continuous ( 24h ) treatment with 5 microM doxorubicin resulted in cell cycle arrest in G0 / G1 phase that was neither accompanied by phosphorylation and activation of p53 nor enhanced expression of p21 .
The effects of these alterations in placental functional development appear to be irreversible .
Anarchic angiogenesis with large , moniliform , tortuous vessels was seen in severe dysplasias and carcinomas .
Mice with EC - specific deletion of Dicer , a key enzyme for generating miRNAs , display defective postnatal angiogenesis .
Treatment of murine pulmonary capillary endothelial cells with HAH - cortisol at 10 ( - 5 ) M ( with respect to cortisol ) suppressed their DNA synthesis by 50 % and inhibited their migration into wounded areas of confluent monolayers .
Here we found that inactivation of the Notch effectors Hes1 , Hes3 and Hes5 , but not Hes1 alone , led to reduced cell proliferation , increased secretory cell formation and altered intestinal structures in adult mice .
Nitric oxide synthase inhibition results in synergistic anti - tumour activity with melphalan and tumour necrosis factor alpha - based isolated limb perfusions .
Hedgehog signaling : networking to nurture a promalignant tumor microenvironment .
WT1 represses transcription of several growth factors and growth factor receptors .
BMP expression and activation was measured by PCR and reporter assays .
The body has three equally important interactive immune defense systems , all of which are profoundly disrupted with major burn injury .
Interestingly , we found that K5CDK4 mice show a decreased number of pituitary stem cells , even though CDK4 is not expressed in the stem cells but in transit - amplifying ( TA ) - like cells .
The cohort examined was relatively small and with larger patient numbers , MDM2 overexpression may emerge as a more significant covariate .
Under the conditions used , peroxide - induced conversion of GSH to GSSG could be stoichiometrically reversed by resupplying D - glucose , indicating that no significant lysis or GSSG efflux and / or interchange had taken place .
Despite these suggestive observations , no formal proof is as yet available for the concept that angiogenesis is a physiologic event that occurs all over the mature mammalian integument whenever hair follicles switch from resting ( telogen ) to active growth ( anagen ) .
The semaphorin 7A receptor Plexin C1 is lost during melanoma metastasis .
For the purpose of investigating the relationship between the metastatic potential of the tumor as well as the expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA , and for determing the location of the positive sites in the cells , tumor metastasis suppressor gene nm23 - H1 in human hepatocellular carcinoma ( and the nonneoplastic area surrounding the tumor ) was detected by in situ hybridization using digoxiginin - labeled nm23 - H1 antisense complementary RNA probe .
From these results , it was suggested that PPARgamma activation might suppress COX - 2 expression via the nuclear factor - kappaB pathway in the ovarian carcinoma cells and that low expression of PPARgamma and high expression of COX - 2 might be involved in carcinogenesis and progression of ovarian tumours .
CONCLUSION : Osteopontin siRNA can inhibit U251 cells invasion via the down - regulation of uPA , MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 levels , and promote apoptosis through induction of Bax expression and inhibition of Bcl 2 level .
Integrin alphavbeta3 requirement for sustained mitogen - activated protein kinase activity during angiogenesis .
This review focuses on the application of therapeutic angiogenesis for treating ischemic muscle disease and includes a critical evaluation of the parameters and limitations of current procedures .
These data provide further evidence of the existing relationship between pro - inflammatory molecules and ovarian cancer progression .
Chronic exposure to tobacco smoke , which contains over 60 tumor - initiating carcinogens , is the major risk factor for development of lung cancer , accounting for a large portion of cancer - related deaths worldwide .
Histological venous invasion ( p less than 0 . 01 ) and distant metastasis ( p less than 0 . 05 ) were significantly correlated with p53 protein expression .
The value of serum S - 100beta and interleukins as tumour markers in advanced melanoma .
Furthermore , thrombin increases the secretion of VEGF and enhances the expression and protein synthesis of matrix metalloprotease - 9 and alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) integrin in human prostate cancer PC - 3 cells .
On day 41 , rats were killed and tumor nodules were counted .
H4IIEC3 ( H4 ) , a differentiated rat hepatoma line and H5 , its dedifferentiated subclone , were investigated as proliferating spheroids and as implanted subcutaneous tumors in juvenile rats .
Inhibition of MAP kinase kinase ( MEK ) during this sustained alphavbeta3 - dependent ERK signal blocked the formation of new blood vessels while not influencing preexisting blood vessels on the CAM .
Inhibition of either PARP or caspase activity blocked magnolol - induced apoptosis , supporting the involvement of the caspases and PARP .
Many cellular and biochemical effects of curcumin in mouse fibroblast cells have been reported , such as inhibition of protein kinase C ( PKC ) activity induced by phorbol 12 - myristate 13 - acetate treatment , inhibition of tyrosine protein kinase activity , and inhibition of arachidonic acid ( AA ) metabolism .
Activated platelets enhance ovarian cancer cell invasion in a cellular model of metastasis .
The relative resistance of PC - 3 cells to drug - induced apoptosis was associated with constitutive Akt activation , higher levels of cFLIP - L and Bcl - 2 , and lower levels of Bax .
In vivo , cediranib ( 6 mg / kg / d ) prevented angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis induced by VEGF - E - expressing and VEGF - C156S - expressing adenoviruses , respectively .
Loss of heterozygosity at the E - Cadherin ( uvo ) locus has been reported , but mutations in the E - cadherin gene seem to be rare .
Only 3 of the 13 adenocarcinomas metastatic to the serous membranes included in this study were weakly reactive , accounting for 81 % specificity .
In vitro and in vivo studies with losartan , small interfering RNA specific for calcineurin and FK506 demonstrated that Ang II - mediated sFlt - 1 release was via Ang II type 1 receptor activation and calcineurin signaling , respectively .
TSC2 and PTEN are two key inhibitors of the Akt / mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) pathway and the specific inhibition of mTOR with rapamycin or RAD001 inhibited cell proliferation of PET cell lines .
CONCLUSION : The transfection of LMP1 can increase the expression of MMP - 9 in CNE1 cells .
The Ha - ras oncogene alone did not convert normal human fibroblasts into either immortal or tumorigenic cells .
Similar results were obtained with cell lines derived from malignant fibrous histiocytomas , leiomyosarcomas , and liposarcomas .
CD56 + putative natural killer cell lymphomas : production of cytolytic effectors and related proteins mediating tumor cell apoptosis ?
In breast cancer , biomarkers that specifically correlate with the invasive phenotypes have not been clearly identified .
In situ fluorescent end labeling was used to label apoptotic cells .
We revealed that expression of p53 proteins with amino - acid substitutions at codons 175 ( R175H ) , 248 ( R248W ) , and 273 ( R273H ) , representing the hot - spots of mutations in various human tumors , increased the number of vessels in HCT116 human colon carcinoma xenografts and , as a result , accelerated their growth .
It is concluded that there is no major difference between the PET investigation of glucose metabolism and the less expensive SPET measurement of amino acid uptake in terms of their accuracy in evaluating the malignancy grade of primary brain tumours .
In addition to well established functions to block cell proliferation , recent studies have revealed a role for p53 in the regulation of pathways involved in glucose metabolism .
Meclofenamate and indomethacin were tested in an attempt to confirm recent reports of anti - edema activity in non steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs ( NSAID ' s ) .
BACKGROUND : Inhibition of angiogenesis reverses rodent obesity .
All had palpable pedal pulses .
No clinicopathologic factors were significantly correlated with p53 or VEGF expression .
The reduced CK1delta activity did not affect early lesion formation during tumorigenesis , suggesting that impaired CK1delta activity reduces the probability for outgrowth of in situ carcinomas to invasive carcinomas .
In this study , we investigated the effect of artemisinin on tumor growth , lymphangiogenesis , metastasis and survival in mouse Lewis lung carcinoma ( LLC ) models .
Western blot was performed to detect the effect of curcumin on the expression of uPA .
PTTG - induced galectin - 1 transactivation and expression were mediated by c - Myc , and both inductions were suppressed by c - Myc RNAi cotranfection .
Such evidence indicates that MTSS1 as a multiple functional molecular player and has an important role in development , carcinogenesis and metastasis .
Adjuvant chemotherapy is recommended after resection in selected high - risk patients with stage II disease and in all patients with stage III disease .
Adenovirus - mediated p53 gene transfer is ineffective in causing apoptosis in glioma cells that retain wild - type p53 genotype or overexpress the p21 protein .
We herein report the effects of novel developed material , collagen - poly glycolic acid fiber hybrid matrix , being used together with basic fibroblast growth factor to promote wound healing of full - thickness skin defects on the back of type 2 diabetic Lepr ( db ) mice .
Patients with high PLD ( > 8 . 0 ) showed higher rates of neck metastases than low PLD ( < = 8 . 0 ) ( 74 . 0 % vs 46 . 8 % , p = . 03 ) .
Here we demonstrate that repetitive exposure to tobacco smoke promotes tumor development both in carcinogen - treated mice and in transgenic mice undergoing sporadic K - ras activation in lung epithelial cells .
The distinction between these two possibilities is made based on clinicopathologic observations , and therefore may not be definitive .
The interaction between the vascular endothelium and hemodynamic forces ( and more specifically , fluid shear stress ) , induced by the flow of blood , plays a major role in vascular remodeling and in new blood vessels formation via a process termed arteriogenesis .
In addition , silencing of S6K1 induced apoptosis accompanied by a decrease in the phosphorylation of BAD and Bcl - 2 , similar to that observed with sunitinib treatment .
The cellular tumour antigen p53 is found at elevated levels in a wide variety of transformed cells ( for reviews see refs 1 , 2 ) .
The present study was therefore designed to evaluate the expression of thrombospondin 1 and 2 ( TSP - 1 , TSP - 2 ) , TSP receptors CD36 and CD47 , and matrix - metalloproteases 2 and 9 ( MMP - , MMP - 9 ) in a rat prostate cancer model .
FM - MSC or BM - MSC obtained from Lewis rats were injected into a MHC - mismatched August - Copenhagen - Irish rat model of hind limb ischemia .
Aflibercept ( AVE0005 ) : an alternative strategy for inhibiting tumour angiogenesis by vascular endothelial growth factors .
Endothelial cell proliferation and migration is essential to angiogenesis .
Bee venom induces apoptosis and inhibits expression of cyclooxygenase - 2 mRNA in human lung cancer cell line NCI - H1299 .
SAHA downregulated Bcl - XL and upregulated proapoptotic BH3 - only protein Bim , whose expression was further enhanced by E1A in cancer cells .
These results suggest that Cum - OOH - induced carcinogenesis is accompanied by increased AP - 1 activation and changes in antioxidant status .
RESULTS : The antiapoptotic protein Bcl - 2 was highly expressed by pulmonary endothelial cells in all cases of irreversible PHT but in no cases of reversible PHT , nor in control patients ( p less than 0 . 001 ) .
These results indicate a possible role of L - NAME for the treatment of solid tumours in a systemic or regional setting .
Here we show that heterozygous disruption of beclin 1 increases the frequency of spontaneous malignancies and accelerates the development of hepatitis B virus - induced premalignant lesions .
The nm23 - H1 gene product has been considered as an anti - metastatic protein and the level of its expression has been reported to correlate inversely with metastatic potential in some cancers .
In this cell line , c - myb is activated by insertional mutagenesis and cannot be effectively down regulated by cytokine .
Because tumor metastasis requires angiogenesis , we examined whether rk - 2 could inhibit metastases induced by injection of B16F10 melanoma cells into mice .
Mutation of p53 may play an important role in the high proliferative activity of tumors in the RSCM group and H . pylori infection may be closely related to carcinogenesis in patients with RSC .
Therefore , angiogenesis depends on sustained ERK activity regulated by the ligation state of both a growth factor receptor and integrin alphavbeta3 .
TP catalyzes the conversion of thymidine to thymine and doxyribose - 1 - phosphate ( dR - 1 - P ) .
RESULTS : MMP - 9 was expressed in both cell lines but the intensity of the staining was different .
Ultraviolet B irradiation promotes tumorigenic and metastatic properties in primary cutaneous melanoma via induction of interleukin 8 .
The subsequent identification of germline mutations in the gene encoding fumarase - - another TCA cycle enzyme - - in a new hereditary form of susceptibility to renal , uterine and cutaneous tumors has highlighted the potential role of the TCA cycle and , more generally , of the mitochondria in cancer .
Taken together , our findings suggest that ICAM - 3 stimulates cancer cell migration / invasion via ICAM - 3 / Akt / CREB / MMP pathway regardless of p53 and PTEN status , and this reflects the possibility that ICAM - 3 could be considered as a candidate for anti - cancer drug development and as a cancer diagnostic marker .
To identify the underlying mechanism involved in such growth - factor / serum independent growth of Galpha ( 12 ) QL - transformed NIH3T3 , we carried out a two - dimensional differential proteome analysis of Galpha ( 12 ) QL - transformed NIH3T3 cells and cells expressing vector control .
Our study indicates that 1 ) Ca2 + entry in pulmonary endothelial cells through SOCs produces cell shape change that is dependent on site - specific rearrangement of the microfilamentous cytoskeleton and 2 ) Trp1 may be a component of pulmonary endothelial SOCs .
To prevent adhesions , an experimental study was planned to designate the effects of low molecular weight ( LMW ) heparins and hyperbaric oxygen ( HBO ) therapy both on the formation of adhesions and wound healing .
After 2 h incubation at 37 degrees C the drop in the ATP level was lower .
We reported earlier on the oncogenic properties of Grm1 by demonstrating that stable Grm1 - mouse - melanocytic clones proliferate in the absence of growth supplement and anchorage in vitro .
Therefore , high TP is most likely associated with a poor prognosis .
The prognostic value of PE was also evaluated by dividing MDS / AML patients into high and low PE groups using the median PE level of normal controls as the cut - off .
There is also an implicit assumption that a mechanistic understanding , although fundamentally reductionist , will nonetheless lead to a more profound teleological understanding of the need for altered metabolism in invasive cancers .
METHOD : Dideoxy sequencing and fluorescent single strand conformation analysis were used to screen for mutations in exon 15 of BRAF in 183 cases of metastatic melanoma .
The incidence of high - grade lesions ( high - grade dysplasia / carcinoma in situ and invasive adenocarcinoma ) in the folate - supplemented group was 46 % lower than that in the control group ( 35 . 3 % versus 65 . 1 % , P = 0 . 009 ) .
bFGF was loaded into the heparin functionalized ( PLGA - heparin ) microspheres by a simple dipping method .
METHODS : Expression of MMP - 9 was studied in human NPC cell lines cultured in vitro : CNE1 ( well differentiated cell line of NPC ) and CNE1 - GL ( CNE1 cell line transfected with an eukaryotic LMP1 - expression plasmid ) by SP immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis .
A long - lived line , RSVT - 2 , was produced and an immortalized subclone , RSVT2 / C , was further derived under a forced crisis regimen .
These diagrams show the relative rates of glycolysis , the tricarboxylic acid cycle , electron transport , and the malate - aspartate shuttle in these tumors .
Coexpression of PIM - 1KD and PIM - 2KD abrogated growth factor - independent growth of Ba / F3 transformed by several PTKs , including BCR / ABL .
All courses were evaluated for safety and 31 for efficacy .
In this review article , many functions of homeobox genes both at the early stem cell level as well as at the later stages of hematopoietic differentiation , and the leukemogenic effect of altered homeobox genes are discussed .
Conversion of these sites to alanine residues greatly reduced transforming activity , and although the mutant 55 - kDa protein was found to interact with p53 at normal levels , it was somewhat defective for suppression of p53 transactivation activity .
METHODS : Ovarian cancer SKOV3 cells were transfected with hPNAS - 4 - plasmid , and cell proliferation was evaluated by MTT assay ; apoptosis was examined by DNA ladder , Hoechst33258 staining and flow - cytometric assays .
Activation of Ca2 + entry is known to produce endothelial cell shape change , leading to increased permeability , leukocyte migration , and initiation of angiogenesis in conduit - vessel endothelial cells .
No correlations were found between the nm23 - H1 gene product expression in lung cancers and the patients survival .
p53 and PCNA status do not appear to influence topo I expression , and topo I has no apparent association with the acquisition of a metastatic phenotype .
Upon HTPB treatment , cell cycle arrest was induced and subsequently led to mitochondria - mediated apoptosis .
The concept of the neurovascular unit emphasizes that common signals and substrates underlie the physiology and pathophysiology of neuronal and endothelial compartments in brain .
RESULTS : The cRGD - HL significantly inhibited adhesion and migration of endothelial cells to vitronectin , and tubular structures of endothelial cells .
Anti - metastasis effects of gallic acid on gastric cancer cells involves inhibition of NF - kappaB activity and downregulation of PI3K / AKT / small GTPase signals .
We assessed survivin expression in breast carcinomas correlating results with expression of other antiapoptotic ( bcl - 2 , bcl - x ) and proapoptotic ( bax ) markers , with prognostic parameters , and with prognosis .
The most common toxicity was skin rash ( 40 % ) ; myelosuppression and gastrointestinal side effects were uncommon .
These results suggest that MnSO4 co - operates with overexpressed c - myc in inducing transformation , while 5 - azacytidine transformation is independent of c - myc overexpression and may involve alterations in the regulation of apoptosis .
Comparative NMR study of a differentiated rat hepatoma and its dedifferentiated subclone cultured as spheroids and as implanted tumors .
Two separate regions of Evi - 1 are responsible for this repression , one of which is the first zinc - finger domain .
We performed immunohistochemical staining of EphA2 and E - cadherin with EphA2 and E - cadherin monoclonal antibodies in samples from 194 primary lesions of colorectal cancer .
Endothelialization was present at anastomotic sites , but other areas were covered with fresh thrombi .
Joint haemorrhage and subsequent haemophilic arthropathy are significant complications in haemophilia .
To elucidate the role of free radicals and leukocytes in MTX - induced oxidative organ damage and the putative protective effect of L - carnitine ( L - Car ) , Wistar albino rats were administered a single dose of MTX ( 20 mg / kg ) followed by either saline or L - Car ( 500 mg / kg ) for 5 days .
Epithelial keratitis , disciform edema , and necrotizing keratitis with neovascularization of the cornea developed in control animals .
The polycomb gene Bmi - 1 is required for the self - renewal of stem cells from diverse tissues , including the central nervous system ( CNS ) .
Parental NIH 3T3 - derived cells had both 72 kDa and 92 kDa gelatinase activities , and LTA - derived cells had either aberrantly sized approximately 90 kDa activity alone or neither enzyme activity .
Cyclooxygenase - 2 ( COX - 2 ) inhibitors are anti - inflammatory agents , which have potent anti - inflammatory , anti - angiogenic and analgesic properties yet do not affect platelet function in the manner of traditional non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs .
Many observations in various animal models and humans support that the remodeling of preexisting collateral vessels is the mechanism of collateral artery formation .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : Forty - two MRI exams were performed with intravascular contrast media in 21 rats : tumours were induced by subcutaneous injection of colon carcinoma cells in 7 rats and mammary adenocarcinoma cells in 14 rats .
The N - myc proto - oncogene encodes a transcription factor which regulates cell growth and differentiation .
The different tumorigenic potential of SV40 in WAP - T and WAP - mutCK1delta / WAP - T tumors was also reflected by a significantly different expression of various genes known to be involved in tumor progression , specifically of those involved in wnt - signaling and DNA repair .
Ruffling occurs only on the expression of forms of VASP that possess bundling activity and the capacity to bind zyxin / vinculin - derived peptide .
These studies support a role of both systems in adipogenesis and obesity ; the role of specific members of these families , however , remains to be determined .
Autotaxin ( ATX ) , an exo - nucleotide pyrophosphatase and phosphodiesterase , was originally isolated as a potent stimulator of tumor cell motility .
Efficient inhibition of ovarian cancer growth and prolonged survival by transfection with a novel pro - apoptotic gene , hPNAS - 4 , in a mouse model .
Rhizochalin is a two - headed sphingolipid - like compound isolated from the sponge Rhizochalina incrustata .
PURPOSE : Spironolactone has recently been shown to have suppressive effects on several immunoactive and proinflammatory cytokines .
Constitutively nuclear FOXO3a localization predicts poor survival and promotes Akt phosphorylation in breast cancer .
Zero to 10 daily fractions of electron - beam radiation ( 300 cGy each ) were delivered to the implant in the right groin , while the implant in the left groin served as a nonirradiated internal control .
Simultaneously as the growth rate decreased , the cellular uptake of glucose and the density of a class of glucose - reversible binding sites for cytochalasin B on the cell surface were also found to be reduced .
F - 2 cells cultured on Matrigel showed evident tube formation , and coculture of F - 2 cells with A431 cells led to the formation of A431 cell nests constantly surrounded by tube - like networks consisting of F - 2 cells .
We previously reported that the murine fibroblast cell line LTA is tumorigenic but non - metastatic , and is non - responsive to a transfected H - ras oncogene .
Knockdown of PLCbeta3 in HUVEC cells affects IP3 production , actin reorganization , migration and proliferation ; whereas migration is inhibited , proliferation is enhanced .
Use of uteroglobin for the engineering of polyvalent , polyspecific fusion proteins .
Medical therapy for intermittent claudication .
As shown previously , ectopic expression of Runx2 in the thymus leads to a preneoplastic state defined by an accumulation of cells with an immature phenotype and a low proliferative rate .
In addition to p16 ( INK4A ) , the INK4A locus encodes a splice variant , termed p12 - - specifically expressed in human pancreas - - and ARF , a protein encoded by an alternative reading frame that acts as a tumor suppressor through the p53 pathway .
Expression of HER2 and bradykinin B1 receptors in precursor lesions of gallbladder carcinoma .
Moreover , when introduced into nude mice , selected clones generated from either gene were able to induce tumors , although those carrying the mutated version were more efficient .
Furthermore , we show that VEGF - A stimulation of hemopoietic cells does not significantly alter this process .
TNFalpha treatment in cultured cells resulted in increased gene mutations , gene amplification , micronuclei formation and chromosomal instability .
Sensitization to gimatecan - induced apoptosis by tumor necrosis factor - related apoptosis inducing ligand in prostate carcinoma cells .
These findings confirm that cellular immunity is significantly stimulated by IL - 2 only during clinical benefit .
The results were analysed using quantitative immunohistochemical analysis .
Rearrangement of the c - myc gene was common in the plasmacytomas , implying a synergistic role for myc and bcl - 2 in their etiology , but was not detected in the lymphomas .
Tumour angiogenesis involves multiple cellular processes including endothelial cell proliferation , migration , reorganisation of extracellular matrix and tube formation .
The pro - oncogenic transcription factor STAT3 is constitutively activated in a wide variety of tumours that often become addicted to its activity , but no unifying view of a core function determining this widespread STAT3 - dependence has yet emerged .
These studies therefore indicate a specific and a regulatory role of the PKCalpha isoform in three major endothelial cell functions that are important in the maintenance of microvascular homeostasis .
We have , therefore , measured the mRNA level of VEGF - B and VEGF - C together with their receptors by RNase protection assay ( RPA ) in 26 normal kidney samples and 45 renal cell cancers .
In the present study , we investigated the antiangiogenic mechanism of 3 , 6 - di ( 2 , 3 - epoxypropoxy ) xanthone ( EPOX ) , a novel Mcl - 1 targeting drug .
Induction of IL - 8 was UV - B dose dependent and blocked by cyclohexamide , indicating that de novo protein synthesis is required for its expression .
Simultaneously , MMP - 2 expression increases with malignancy .
Disease - free ( DFS ) and overall ( OAS ) survival curves were estimated by the Kaplan - Meier method .
During lymphomagenesis , induction of persistent telomerase expression and activity may occur before or after telomere shortening , as a consequence of the different mechanisms through which transforming factors / agents may activate telomerase .
This strategy may be of significant value in laying the foundation for a more explicit anti - tumor angiogenesis therapy .
The results suggest that chronic exposure to high concentration of TGF - beta promotes the spontaneous neoplastic transformation of cultured rat liver epithelial cells , and that this process may represent one of the mechanisms of cellular adaptation for induction of the multidrug - resistant phenotype during the carcinogenesis of epithelial cells .
Western blot and immunohistochemical assays were used to evaluate Fas and FasL protein expression .
Given the dominant role of p21 in p53 cell cycle control , we crossed Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) mice onto a p21 - null background to determine whether p21 was required for maintaining chromosomal stability and delaying tumor onset .
CONCLUSIONS : The level of fibrinogen in patients with pancreatic carcinoma was elevated .
Tumors display a high rate of glucose uptake and glycolysis .
Patients having low sVAP - 1 levels had significantly poorer prognosis relative to patients having elevated sVAP - 1 in all or stages I - III gastric cancer patients , respectively .
RESULTS : The mean Rentrop collateral score was higher in Group 1 than in Group 2 ( 2 . 39 + / - 1 . 07 vs . 1 . 76 + / - 0 . 76 , respectively , p less than 0 . 001 ) .
The up - regulation of Bid ( 57 . 5 % at 12 hours , P less than 0 . 0006 ) and inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor secretion ( 57 . 7 % at 24 hours , P less than 0 . 015 ; and 50 . 3 % at 48 hours , P less than 0 . 0006 ) could be partially attributed to the effects on HIF - 1alpha , because HIF - 1alpha small interfering RNAs produced similar effects .
The tumor - suppressive action of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS in subcutaneous human lung tumor A549 xenograft correlated with a reduced number of capillary vessels in tumors .
This result supports the alleged contribution of overexpressed receptor tyrosine kinases to cell transformation .
Many of these metastases presumably arise from primary lung carcinomas , but the morphologic features and immunohistochemical profile of lung cancer is often too nonspecific to permit unequivocal confirmation .
In the developing retinal vasculature , numerous , long filamentous filopodia , emanating from endothelial cells at the tips of angiogenic sprouts , were observed in wild - type animals , but to a lesser extent in the PECAM - 1 - null mice .
UFT , an anticancer agent that is composed of tegafur ( FT ) and uracil at a molar ratio of 1 : 4 , is widely used in clinical practice in Japan to treat cancer patients requiring a long - term chemotherapy , and it is associated with few side effects , if any .
To address this issue , an activated neu oncogene was introduced into an immortalized nontumorigenic human breast epithelial cell line ( 184B5 ) .
The lead oxide group revealed extensive growth of blood vessels from the latissimus graft into the experimental fat pad .
This earlier apoptosis was accompanied by a Bcl - 2 decrease and a p53 increase .
[ Treatment of the diabetic foot by hyperbaric oxygen ]
The expression of endostatin in situ and its maintaining time were detected by immunohistochemistry and Western Blot , respectively .
In contrast , therapeutic angiogenesis is based on the concept that coronary collateral development may be stimulated by pharmacological or molecular means and can limit myocardial ischemia .
CONCLUSIONS : Neuroblastoma cells grown in coculture conditioned media show increased expression of Bcl - 2 and decreased Fas ligand levels .
Mouse p10 , an alternative spliced form of p15INK4b , inhibits cell cycle progression and malignant transformation .
In addition , ischemia induces expression of HIF1alpha in hypoxic tissue .
We hypothesized that IGF - 1 - transfected smooth muscle cells ( SMCs ) would enhance cell survival and improve engraftment after cell transplantation .
These observations support that the activation of multiple signals could enhance apoptotic response and suggest the therapeutic interest of the TRAIL / camptothecin combination .
35 % of eyes improved their BCVA by 2 lines or more , 45 % remained stable and 18 % lost 2 lines or more .
To determine whether lipofection in other organs could be enhanced by increasing the degree of vascularization , we used a transgenic mouse model with tissue - specific angiogenesis in liver .
Although the Bcl - 2 and Bax levels were significantly higher in spheroids , Bcl - 2 / Bax ratio was similar in monolayers and spheroids .
In 17 rabbits , a 2 - cm strip of latissimus dorsi was woven into the parascapular fat pad on one side , with the contralateral fat pad serving as a control .
In summary , LPA is likely a key component for promoting ovarian metastasis in vivo .
Furthermore , TGF - beta RII mutations in RER + tumors have been associated with decreased TGF - beta RII mRNA levels .
Hypoxic tumor cells distant from blood vessels were dramatically reoxygenated at 24 h postirradiation , and HIF - 1 activity increased as HIF - 1alpha accumulated in the reoxygenated regions .
Kaplan - Meier survival curves showed a statistically significant worse prognosis for patients with high vascular grade , but no difference was observed between low and medium vascular grade .
Decreased expression of TGF - beta RII in CML cells and leukemia cell lines raises the possibility that altered expression of the receptor may play a role in the initiation and / or maintenance of the disease state .
Like in Apc ( Delta716 ) mice , loss of the wild - type Apc allele was confirmed for all polyps examined in the Apc ( neoR ) and Apc ( neoF ) mice .
DNA microarray analysis and small animal PET studies may be used as complementary technologies in drug development .
We also observe that SHP - 2 knockdown impairs the dopamine - regulated inhibition of VEGF - induced phosphorylation of VEGFR - 2 and , subsequently , Src phosphorylation and migration .
None of the polymorphisms were associated with risk of advanced stage or histologic subtype of cervical cancer .
METHODS : This review outlines and compares the latest development of these strategies , with emphasis on aflibercept , a novel decoy fusion protein of domain 2 of VEGFR - 1 and domain 3 of VEGFR - 2 with the Fc fragment of IgG1 .
These showed cleavage of caspases 9 , 8 , and 3 .
Anoikis was preceded by induction and transloction of a 45 - kDa clusterin isoform to the nucleus .
CCL16 may be specifically cross - linked to CCR1 expressed on endothelial cells .
Affymetrix - microarray analysis was performed using T47D cells over - expressing RASSF1C to identify RASSF1C target genes .
Mechanical strain induced CBP - mediated acetylation of histones 3 and 4 at the SRF - binding site and within the CCN1 gene coding region .
Mechanical regulation of the proangiogenic factor CCN1 / CYR61 gene requires the combined activities of MRTF - A and CREB - binding protein histone acetyltransferase .
Prolonged silencing of both MCTs reduced viability by 75 % individually and 92 % in combination , as measured by both phenotypic and flow cytometric analyses .
At this writing , heparin appears to be the principal mast cell factor responsible for this effect on capillary endothelial cells .
The 5 - yr survival rate in patients with the coexpression was poorer than in the other patients .
It is interesting that certain components of neutrophil cytotoxic arsenal ( ROS , cytokines , specific enzymes ) participate both in antitumoral defenses of an organism and protumoral activity .
Moreover , the M2 - PK - binding peptide aptamers also reduced the proliferation rate of human U - 2 OS osteosarcoma cells .
After tumors developed , mice were treated with angiostatin 20 mg / kg / day or thalidomide 200 mg / kg / day for 30 days .
Here , we show that a portion of laminin - 332 , termed G45 , which is proteolytically removed and absent in normal tissues , is prominently expressed in most human SCC tumors and plays an important role in human SCC tumorigenesis .
The optimal duration of chemotherapy in patients with early and metastatic colorectal cancer is unclear .
The expression level of EphA2 had a statistically significant relationship with liver metastasis , lymphatic vessel invasion and clinical stage ( p = 0 . 0477 , 0 . 0316 and 0 . 0467 , respectively ) .
VEGF might be an important angiogenic factor , and could promote tumor angiogenesis in LSCC .
Inhibition of energy - producing pathways of HepG2 cells by 3 - bromopyruvate .
The alternative splicing of Brn - 3a mRNA produces two molecular forms : a longer , Bcl - 2 transactivating form , and a shorter inactive form , lacking 84 AA in the aminoterminus .
In animal studies , 1B3 significantly enhanced the antitumor and the anti - angiogenic activities of DC101 , an antibody directed against mouse vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 , in a pancreatic ( BxPC - 3 ) and a non - small cell lung ( NCI - H460 ) tumor xenograft models .
AIM : To determine the expression of HER2 and bradykinin B ( 1 ) receptors ( B ( 1 ) R ) in the two pathogenic models of gallbladder cancer : the metaplasia - dysplasia - carcinoma and the adenoma - carcinoma pathways .
In this study , the aim was to investigate the effect of phenolic acids found abundantly in vegetables , i . e . gallic acid ( GA ) , caffeic acid ( CA ) and protocatechuic acid ( PCA ) , on the inhibition of gastric adenocarcinoma ( AGS ) cell metastasis .
The heart functions ( left ventricle ejection fraction ( LVEF ) , left ventricle fractional shortening ( LVFS ) ) were improved more significantly in the old donor - derived MSCs group than in the control group and the heart function in the young donor - derived MSCs group further improved ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
Fractional tumor growth was determined and immunohistochemical analysis of tumors was used to determine degree of angiogenesis .
These results suggest that there is cell type specificity for oncogene activation during in vitro rat bladder transformation initiated by a single carcinogen and that ras gene activation is not a necessary step in urothelial transformation in vitro .
Androgen stimulates glycolysis for de novo lipid synthesis by increasing the activities of hexokinase 2 and 6 - phosphofructo - 2 - kinase / fructose - 2 , 6 - bisphosphatase 2 in prostate cancer cells .
Bovine capillary endothelial cells are also stimulated to actively migrate when exposed to EGF in vitro .
Nitric oxide ( NO ) is an important molecule in regulating tumour blood flow and stimulating tumour angiogenesis .
Thus , vimentin expression may be helpful in identifying a substantial subset of ER - independent breast carcinomas with poor prognostic indicators .
LDH5 overexpression was associated with histological type ( adenocarcinoma = 57 % , squamous cell carcinoma = 45 % , large cell carcinoma = 46 % , p = 0 . 006 ) .
Cytotoxic chemotherapy resistance is linked to limited therapeutic options and poor prognosis .
20 - Hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid ( 20 - HETE ) is formed by the omega - hydroxylation of arachidonic acid by cytochrome P450 4A and 4F enzymes , and it induces angiogenic responses in vivo .
Breast tissue taken at varying postoperative times ( n = 92 ) or during surgery ( controls , n = 17 ) , was used to investigate the temporal and spatial activity of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 during human wound healing .
Perlecan is a ubiquitous pericellular proteoglycan ideally placed to mediate cell signaling events controlling migration , proliferation , and differentiation .
Changes in plasminogen activator inhibitor - 1 levels in non - small cell lung cancer .
Distinct role of PLCbeta3 in VEGF - mediated directional migration and vascular sprouting .
Highly specialized cells , the thyrocytes , express a thyroid - specific set of genes for thyroglobulin ( Tg ) , thyroperoxidase , and the transcription factors TTF - 1 , TTF - 2 , and Pax - 8 .
Previous work demonstrates that the LMP1 gene of EBV is sufficient to transform certain established rodent fibroblast cell lines and to induce the tumorigenicity of some human epithelial cell lines .
The existence of proteins encoded by the 3 ' region has been postulated on the basis of multiple open reading frames .
RESULTS : In this article , we report the effects of altering RASSF1C expression in human breast cancer cells .
Cell lines were established from tumor and metastases and kept in culture for more than 2 months .
This is particularly true for inflammatory bowel diseases ( IBD ) , such as ulcerative colitis and Crohn ' s disease , which show a major increased risk for colorectal cancer .
Inactivation of IGF - IR resulted in a loss of endothelial cells , accompanied by dramatic changes in fetal lung explant morphology .
These findings also illustrate an operational link between VPF / VEGF induction of EC gene expression and VPF / VEGF enhancement of microvascular permeability , suggesting that these distinct biological activities may act accordingly to stimulate EC migration during angiogenesis .
The number of retinal vascular findings was not significantly correlated with serous elevation of the retina .
Current therapy for glioma is suboptimal .
Induction of this DNA - binding activity was accompanied by tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat3 and correlated with Src transformation .
Predictive markers for anti - VEGF agents have not yet been identified and questions regarding the usefulness of bevacizumab in the adjuvant setting as well as its continued use beyond progression remain unanswered , in spite of negative data on bevacizumab in treating patients with adjuvant colon cancer .
Bolus incubation was carried out to determine effects of doxorubicin accumulated during the first 3h , whereas continuous incubation allowed further ( continuous ) exposure to doxorubicin .
DAPT delivery from the hydrogels also did not lead to any adverse side effects , in contrast to systemic introduction of DAPT .
We conclude that prefabrication of a fat flap is possible and may have extensive application in various areas of plastic surgery .
The main purpose of the present investigation was to study the effect of a homologous series of 1 - alkylpyrrolidine N - oxides on ATP - producing processes in Ehrlich ascites and L1210 murine leukemia cells .
KISS1 methylation was associated with increasing stage ( P = 0 . 001 ) and tumor grade ( P = 0 . 010 ) .
These include activated macrophages , sensitized lymphocytes , and adipocytes .
Specific miRNAs ( angiomiRs ) have recently been shown to regulate angiogenesis in vivo .
The study presented here examined the ability of specific regions and activities of T antigen to modulate apoptosis in cells treated with the genotoxic agent 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) .
Thus the results obtained by 31P and 13C MRS correlated with the differentiation state of H4 and H5 spheroids and tumors .
Based on our results , COUP - TFII may represent a biomarker for good prognosis in colorectal cancer .
Serum IL - 6 levels correlate with tumor stage , and survival of patients .
The results showed that thrombospondin is expressed in normal prostate but not in prostate tumours in a rat model .
The tyrosine kinase inhibitor cediranib blocks ligand - induced vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 3 activity and lymphangiogenesis .
In an animal experiment , marrow cells were infiltrated into the walls of long - fibril expanded polytetrafluoroethylene ( ePTFE ) vascular grafts .
Using multivariate analysis the S - 100beta level was the most powerful prognostic indicator , while the metastatic profile was found to be significant after exclusion of S - 100beta .
It is a safe mode of therapy , but further studies are required to establish its efficacy and to ascertain which diabetic patients and wounds will benefit the most from it .
IL - 1Ra also improved islet vascularization , reduced fibrosis and ameliorated glycemia .
Intraperitoneal administration of 2G7 resulted in a marked increase in mouse spleen NK cell activity .
Honokiol has been reported to possess potent antiangiogenesis and antitumor properties in several cell lines and xenograft tumor models .
When transplanted in nude mice , tumors formed by the v - Src transformed SWAP - 70 ( - / - ) MEFs were smaller than those formed by cells expressing exogenous SWAP - 70 .
Instead of cancer initiation , it is therefore likely that Tsg101 plays a more predominant role in the progression of a subset of spontaneously arising breast cancers .
Y705 phosphorylation is conventionally thought to be required for Stat3 signal - dependent activation and seems to play an essential role in some malignancies .
Opinions on 3 areas were sought : pulp therapy for cariously involved primary teeth ; indirect pulp treatment ( IPT ) for cariously involved immature permanent teeth ; and innovative treatment options including pulpal revascularization and regeneration .
After removal of fibroblasts by exposure to G - 418 , the tumor cells exhibited increased metastatic ability and human K - ras oncogene mRNA , suggesting an intimate interaction between H - 3 cells and fibroblasts influencing the function of transfected human K - ras oncogene .
Chronic inflammation is a common underlying condition for human tumor development , accounting for approximately 20 % of human cancers .
The aim of this study was to investigate the molecular pathway of the cytotoxic effect of paclitaxel in human cervical cancer cell lines .
PURPOSE : Tumor fibroblasts ( TF ) have been suggested to play an essential role in the complex process of tumor - stroma interactions and tumorigenesis .
HYPOTHESIS : We speculate that there is a burst of angiogenesis of distant dormant micrometastases after surgery in approximately 20 % of premenopausal node - positive patients .
The present study used JB6 P + mouse epidermal cells and AP - 1 - luciferase reporter transgenic mice to identify whether exposure to Cum - OOH caused activation of AP - 1 , oxidative stress , depletion of antioxidants and tumor formation during two - stage carcinogenesis .
Our laboratory has provided evidence that thrombin activates angiogenesis , a process which is essential in tumor growth and metastasis .
As chicken embryo fibroblasts are devoid of EGF receptors , their activity is not potentiated by EGF .
OBJECTIVES : To compare the proteomic expression profile between an Epstein - Barr virus - associated NPC cell line ( C666 - 1 ) and a normal NP cell line ( NP69 ) .
Finally , sections of the control and experimental flaps were analyzed histologically .
The expression of HMGA2 modulates the expression of hTERT , resulting in cells with enhanced telomerase activities and increased telomere length .
The majority had nuclear ( 70 . 1 % ) or nuclear and cytoplasmic staining ( 17 . 3 % ) .
The special attention is focused on the ambiguity of the neutrophil role in oncogenesis .
After 15 days , the clots were examined by histology and electron microscopy .
PTTG activated E - box transcription and induced c - Myc protein expression in EC9706 cells , which in turn may act on an E - box motif within the galectin - 1 promoter .
Co - treatment with inhibitors of autophagy results in marked enhancement of cell death .
In the manual count analysis , there was no significant relation between MDM2 overexpression and outcome .
Potential roles for focal adhesion kinase in development .
Notch receptors and ligands ( Jagged and Delta - like ) play a critical role in this process in addition to VEGF .
These were pigmented , and maintained expression of tyrosinase , TRP - 1 , cytokeratin and SV40 Tag .
They do not compete with 125I EGF for binding on the EGF receptors of the membrane of A431 cells .
Autotaxin ( ATX ) , a potent tumor motogen , augments invasive and metastatic potential of ras - transformed cells .
Left ventricular capillary length density ( mm / mm ( 3 ) ) increased gradually with alinidine administration ; a 15 % increase after 2 weeks and a 40 % increase after 3 weeks of alinidine treatment were documented .
Administration of exogenous polyamines prevented ACA - induced apoptosis represented by a reduction in the number of apoptotic bodies and also caused reduction in the induced caspase - 3 - like protease activity at 8 h .
Presence of blood vessels was confirmed with histology and electron microscopy .
Pretreatment with aspirin and nimesulide inhibited EC9706 and EC109 cell growth in a time and dose - dependent manner , accompanied with a decrease of prostaglandin E2 production .
We hypothesize that neuroblastoma cells will interact with host tissues to release mediators that affect apoptosis .
Loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 in gastric carcinoma .
We also show that VEGFR1 + cells express VLA - 4 ( also known as integrin alpha4beta1 ) , and that tumour - specific growth factors upregulate fibronectin - - a VLA - 4 ligand - - in resident fibroblasts , providing a permissive niche for incoming tumour cells .
p53 does so through the induction of genes leading to growth arrest or apoptosis .
Vimentin expression , growth fractions ( GF ) , and estrogen receptor ( ER ) levels were determined for 90 untreated primary breast carcinomas .
We could imagine that it also plays a role in adjuvant chemotherapy effectiveness since , perhaps not coincidentally , this is most beneficial for premenopausal node - positive patients .
BACKGROUND : The murine nm23 gene suppresses the metastatic behavior of malignant rodent tumor lines , and reduced nm23 expression correlates with increased likelihood of lymph node metastases in human breast cancers .
Here we report that infusion of Ang II significantly increases circulating levels of sFlt - 1 in pregnant mice , thereby demonstrating that Ang II is a regulator of sFlt - 1 secretion in vivo .
The alpha2beta1 integrin receptor plays a key role in angiogenesis .
The proliferative response of bovine retinal capillary endothelial cells to EGF is dependent upon attaching the cells to a matrix of fibronectin .
We have established a model system to detect the presence of ras p21 in the sera of Balb / c mice carrying tumors induced by a mouse cell line transformed with the Harvey murine sarcoma virus in the presence of a helper Friend murine leukemia virus .
siRNA - mediated knockdown of the ATG7 gene also sensitized hepatoma cells to sorafenib .
Host - derived angiopoietin - 2 affects early stages of tumor development and vessel maturation but is dispensable for later stages of tumor growth .
Immunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated that Fas associated with c - erbB2 and c - met in untreated cells .
The expression of Merlin protein was not associated with the pathological type , gender , P - TNM stage , differentiation and lymph node metastasis ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
We also speculate that this synchronizes them into a temporal highly chemosensitive state and is the underlying reason why adjuvant chemotherapy works particularly well for that patient category .
In addition , serum concentration of the angiogenesis inhibitor , endostatin , decreased significantly after primary tumor removal .
However , these cells can be sensitized to 8 - aminoadenosine under glucose - limiting conditions .
Lack of IL - 17F did not reverse the splenomegaly but partially restored thymic atrophy , suggesting a local effect of IL - 17F in the intestine .
VEGF - A ( 165 ) , B , C , Flt - 1 , and KDR were analyzed .
Vaccination is associated with enhancement of splenocyte - mediated tumoricidal activity , whereas the effect of gammaIFN is mediated by KC .
We have found that sanguinarine alters the morphology and reduces the viability of MG - 63 and SaOS - 2 human osteosarcoma cell lines in concentration - and time - dependent manner .
IL - 18 is also functionally related to IL - 12 , as it induces the production of Th1 cytokines and participates in cell - mediated immune cytotoxicity .
To investigate the possibility that this regulatory connection contributes to Myb ' s oncogenicity , we expressed a dominant negative Myb in the myeloid leukemic cell line RI - 4 - 11 .
The increased rate of glucose transport is dependent on the activity of pp60src , the transforming protein of Rous sarcoma virus .
Together , the data establish that acute ethanol exposure significantly impairs angiogenesis and suggest that this effect is mediated by changes in endothelial cell responsiveness to both VEGF and hypoxia .
Our data suggest that VEGFR2 - mediated regulation of endothelial function is dependent on different but specific Rab - mediated GTP hydrolysis activity required for endosomal trafficking .
Neuroblastoma and hepatocyte coculture conditioned media alter apoptosis .
OBJECTIVES : Recently , it has been reported that expression of the HRK gene was significantly reduced by hypermethylation in astrocytic tumors .
However , the expression of nm23 - H1 gene product in the metastatic sites have not been studied in detail .
In conclusion , HAH - cortisol represents the prototype of a new class of angiogenesis inhibitors for the treatment of cancer and other angiogenic diseases .
None of the test drugs demonstrated significant anti - edema activity .
Their correlation with lymph node metastasis and the predictability of lymph node metastases , by combining these factors , were also discussed .
Finally , sorafenib induced autophagy in Huh7 xenograft tumors in nude mice and coadministration with chloroquine significantly suppressed tumor growth compared with sorafenib alone .
The appearance of lipid - bloated subretinal MCs was drusen - like on funduscopy of senescent mice , and CX3CR1 - dependent MC accumulation was associated with an exacerbation of experimental CNV .
Cobalt chloride , a stimulator of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) stimulated angiogenesis initiation at 10 ( - 9 ) M in fat tissue and the HPVAM , but at 10 ( - 10 ) M blood vessel growth was stimulated only in the fat assay .
Safety of verteporfin for treatment of subfoveal choroidal neovascular membranes associated with age - related macular degeneration .
TEL is biallelically disrupted in acute leukemia , and loss of heterozygosity at the TEL locus has been observed in various cancers .
Microvascular corrosion casts of caruncles from non - pregnant and pregnant doe goats at 4 , 7 , 10 , 13 , 16 , and 18 weeks were examined with scanning electron microscopy .
Our results suggest that EPOX is a novel antiangiogenic agent , making it a promising lead compound for further development in the treatment of angiogenesis - related pathologies .
Ethanol exposure resulted in reduced VEGF - induced cord formation on collagen and reduced capillary network structure on Matrigel in vitro .
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the biological features of gastric cancer of the remnant stomach ( RSC ) .
From these data , as well as earlier evidence demonstrating that the reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide ( NADH ) shuttle in these cells requires a transaminase step and is thus identified as the malate - aspartate shuttle ( W . V . V . Greenhouse and A . L . Lehninger , Cancer Res . , 36 : 1392 - 1396 , 1976 ) , metabolic flux diagrams were constructed for the five cell lines .
Patients were followed up at 1 month and 3 months after treatment and thereafter at 3 - month intervals .
Balb / c 3T3 cells carrying this NPC - LMP gene showed a transformed cell morphology and were tumorigenic in nude mice .
Integration of interferon - alpha / beta signalling to p53 responses in tumour suppression and antiviral defence .
Selective inhibition of nuclear factor - kappaB by nuclear factor - kappaB essential modulator - binding domain peptide suppresses the metastasis of highly metastatic oral squamous cell carcinoma .
Relevant differentially expressed genes were validated by either quantitative real - time polymerase chain reaction or immunohistochemistry on tissue microarrays .
In addition , detailed metabolic assessment of these MEFs confirmed their dependence on glycolysis , and an elevated rate of lactate efflux , associated with the upregulation of glycolytic enzymes known to be associated with tumorigenesis .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is a mitogen that acts exclusively on endothelial cells .
Recombinants that lacked miR - BHRF1 - 2 or miR - BHRF1 - 3 displayed enhanced EBNA expression initiated at the Cp and Wp promoters .
These data suggest that c - FLIP may play a critical role in regulating Fas - mediated apoptosis in prostate cancer cells and that modulation of c - FLIP may enhance Fas signaling based therapies .
In this report we studied the effects of SFLLR , an agonist of the activated thrombin receptor and thrombin receptor peptide and non peptide antagonists on angiogenesis in the chick chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) system .
However , their potency toward individual targets can vary .
CONCLUSION : Together , our findings suggest that RASSF1C , unlike RASSF1A , is not a tumor suppressor , but instead may play a role in stimulating metastasis and survival in breast cancer cells .
Assays used to screen for BRAF mutations in the clinic should be robust enough to detect the p . Val600Lys mutation , as this may have therapeutic implications .
PURPOSE : To determine the most efficient time point and concentration of topical corticosteroids in Candida albicans keratitis treated with fluconazole .
The expression of Cbl at the plasma membrane targets both Hck and itself for ubiquitination and degradation , requiring an intact RING finger .
Inhibition of STAT3 activation by expressing a dominant - negative STAT3 protein or a STAT3 - shRNA prevented the OSM - mediated arrest .
Here , we established lymph node metastasis models by injecting overexpressing VEGF - D Lewis lung carcinoma cells into C57BL / 6 mice to explore the effect of honokiol on tumor - associated lymphangiogenesis and related lymph node metastasis .
PURPOSE : The aim of this study was to investigate the use of D2 - 40 for the detection of lymphovascular invasion ( LVI ) in node positive and negative early breast cancer .
Role of thrombin in angiogenesis and tumor progression .
In addition , we showed that paclitaxel downregulated the phosphorylation of Akt in both HeLa and CaSki cells .
To examine whether IFI16 induction might be extended to other proinflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) - alpha , we used the strategy of the RNA interference to knock down IFI16 expression , and analyze the capability of TNF - alpha to stimulate intercellular adhesion molecule - 1 ( ICAM - 1 or CD54 ) expression in the absence of functional IFI16 .
RESULTS : About 43 % ( 126 of 292 ) of known deregulated genes in TFs were associated with cell proliferation , extracellular matrix remodeling , and immune response .
Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) is strongly associated with the development of HCC in people chronically infected with the virus , but the mechanism of viral involvement remains unclear .
The mechanism of this potent collaboration is elucidated in this study of Runx2 / MYC mice .
These results indicate that the INK4B locus , similarly to INK4A - ARF , harbors two different splicing variants that can be involved in the regulation of both the p53 and retinoblastoma pathways , the two major molecular pathways in tumor suppression .
In vivo studies after dosing on Days 6 , 7 , and 8 demonstrated the same reductions in nucleic acid synthesis and a moderate reduction in protein synthesis .
Infection with retroviruses containing transforming genes of the src and ras oncogene families led to rapid loss of epidermal growth factor dependence , in some cases , accompanied by alterations in cellular morphology .
We further investigated the mechanism of anticancer activity by betulin , using HeLa cells as an experimental model .
Together , these results suggest that Tip30 is an intrinsic and negative regulator of MEC proliferation partly through the inhibition of Wisp2 and Igf - 1 expression , and its absence in the mammary gland may predispose MECs to neoplastic transformation .
Viability , measured by the activity of mitochondrial dehydrogenases , was reduced significantly in the cells treated with Sim at 50 and 100 microM for 24 hours ( p < 0 . 005 ) .
Taken together , these results lend great support to use PDGFRbeta antagonists in combinations with other antitumor and / or anti - angiogenic agents in the treatment of a variety of cancers .
Since AP - 1 and NF - kappa B are key elements in controlling interleukin - 8 ( IL - 8 ) transcription , human fibroblasts were treated with alpha - MSH and IL - 1 beta for 24 hours , and cytokine levels in the supernatants were measured by ELISA .
The early closure of all wounds implies that the rabbit ear model may not be valid for chronic wound studies .
Anchorage - independent cell growth is indicative of cell transformation resulting in acquisition of tumorigenic potential .
Using DsRed - tagged Crk and a fluorescent time - lapse microscope , we showed that Crk was recruited to the nascent focal complex after ephrin - B1 stimulation .
CONCLUSION : TEMF therapy provided a safe means for retarding tumor vascularization , growth and metastasis .
However , it remains unknown whether or not allogeneic transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells ( MSC ) derived from fetal membranes ( FM ) , which are generally discarded as medical waste after delivery , has therapeutic potential .
In cultured cells , this molecule is physically associated with focal adhesions , which are well - defined regions of intimate cell - to - substratum adhesion .
This Review will discuss the rationale for using antiangiogenic compounds and will focus on large molecules , such as antibodies , that target the VEGF system .
In cultured b . END5 cells the tumor necrosis factor alpha - induced up - regulation of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 and vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 was reduced in ECs that were preincubated with basic fibroblast growth factor or vascular endothelial growth factor .
As expected , Ang II - induced sFlt - 1 secretion resulted in the inhibition of endothelial cell migration and in vitro tube formation .
Although regulation of Id - 1 protein by several mitogenic factors is well - established , little is known about the role of FGF - 2 in the regulation of Id - 1 .
PMN - triggered angiogenesis is also blocked by both local injection and daily i . p . administration of the Hyp salt in an interleukin - 8 - induced murine model .
These included 40 ( 56 % ) metastases from a primary lung carcinoma and 31 ( 44 % ) metastases from some nonpulmonary carcinoma .
To better understand the activity of cediranib against VEGFR - 3 and its associated signaling events compared with its activity against VEGFR - 2 , we used the receptor - specific ligands VEGF - E and VEGF - C156S .
Pericytes occur in tumour blood vessels and are critical for the development of a functional vascular network .
Immunoblotting and immunostaining studies demonstrated an upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) mostly along the endothelium lining peritoneal blood vessels in long - term PD patients .
Liposomal honokiol inhibits VEGF - D - induced lymphangiogenesis and metastasis in xenograft tumor model .
Tissue reaction of TET epithelial scaffolds immersed with the medium was evaluated on the chick embryo chorioallantoic membrane .
Antivascular actions of microtubule - binding drugs .
Experimental results and theoretical calculations suggest that in glucose - containing medium the Na + transport increases from 0 . 75 to 1 . 78 pmol / hour per cell .
While accumlating evidence for the function of MTSS1 support the concept that it is unlikely to be a metastasis suppressor , but actually acts as a scaffold protein that interacts with multiple partners to regulate actin dynamics .
These results suggest that CSC contribute to tumor angiogenesis by promoting both local endothelial cell activity and systemic angiogenic processes involving bone marrow - derived EPC in a vascular endothelial growth factor - dependent and stromal - derived factor 1 - dependent manner .
Interleukins ( ILs ) may mediate regression or progression of cancer .
However , during each phase of the disease , low levels of TGF - beta RII were detected when compared with the hematopoietic cells of normal donors .
Our results suggest that the selective inhibition of NF - kappaB activation by NBD peptide may provide an effective approach for the treatment of highly metastatic OSCC .
Furthermore , we investigated the correlation between CXCR4 expression and the clinical features of 221 gastric cancer tissue samples .
M - CSF signals through the MAPK / ERK pathway via Sp1 to induce VEGF production and induces angiogenesis in vivo .
Compared with BM - MSC , FM - MSC secreted a comparable amount of hepatocyte growth factor despite a small amount of vascular endothelial growth factor .
Strikingly , 5 of 6 familial CCMs showed PTEN promoter methylation ( 83 . 3 % ) , which was significantly higher than in sporadic cases ( 9 . 4 % ; P < 0 . 001 ) .
In contrast , knockdown of Pbx1 did not impair bone marrow transformation by E2A / HLF or AML1 / ETO , suggesting that Pbx1 is specifically required for the maintenance of bone marrow transformation mediated by Evi - 1 .
Comparisons of presymposium and postsymposium responses and between the 2 groups of attendees indicated that the pediatric dentistry and endodontic communities agree that formocresol will be replaced as a primary tooth pulpotomy agent , that mineral trioxide is the first choice to take its place , that IPT in primary teeth holds hope as a replacement for pulpotomy , and that IPT is an acceptable pulp therapy technique for cariously involved young permanent teeth .
TIMP2 and TIMP3 play functional role in LPA - induced invasion as negative regulators .
What was observed , however , was the multistep acquisition of aberrant cellular genetic changes in marrow cells from patients who transformed , including activating ras oncogene mutations , clonal cytogenetic abnormalities , and G - CSF receptor mutations .
Here we report that the chemotherapeutic drug doxorubicin , a DNA - damaging agent , activates a p53 - survivin signaling pathway inducing cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ) .
In the trans - splenic hepatic metastasis model using nude mice , the augmentation of cancer metastasis was observed by the treatment of carcinostatic agents .
In DNA from the T - cells not expressing DR alpha mRNA , all of the potential HpaII sites within the BglII fragment appeared to be methylated .
Troponin I inhibits capillary endothelial cell proliferation by interaction with the cell ' s bFGF receptor .
A panel of antibodies was used for immunohistochemistry : CD34 / Ki - 67 , carbonic anhydrase IX , hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha ( HIF - 1alpha ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
TNF - alpha is also an essential component of the immune system and is required for hematopoiesis , for protection from bacterial infection and for immune cell - mediated cytotoxicity .
This effect was observed whether the cells had been treated with all - trans - RA in serum - free medium or in medium supplemented with heat - inactivated or acid - treated fetal bovine serum .
A specific histone deacetylase ( HDAc ) inhibitor , trichostatin A ( TSA ) , alleviates Evi - 1 - mediated repression of TGF - beta signaling , suggesting that HDAc is involved in transcriptional repression by Evi - 1 .
Roles of brca2 ( fancd1 ) in oocyte nuclear architecture , gametogenesis , gonad tumors , and genome stability in zebrafish .
In this communication , we describe an alternative approach that begins with teleology ; i . e . adaptive landscapes and selection pressures that promote emergence of aerobic glycolysis during the somatic evolution of invasive cancer .
Promoting angiogenesis via manipulation of VEGF responsiveness with notch signaling .
We now report that six different genes of the cluster HOX 1 are sequentially induced by RA in a similar temporal pattern , beginning with genes at the 3 ' end of the cluster .
Expression was evaluated in normal breast tissue and carcinoma , nuclei and cytoplasm , as intensity ( 0 to 3 + ) , and percentage of positive cells .
Ectopic expression of TLX in the U87MG glioma cell line and Ink4a / Arf - deficient mouse astrocytes ( Ink4a / Arf ( - / - ) astrocytes ) induced cell proliferation with a concomitant increase in cyclin D expression , and accelerated foci formation in soft agar and tumor formation in in vivo transplantation assays .
After successive growth in vitro for longer than one month which was scarcely observed with the erythrophores , the vast majority of such transformants began to differentiate into erythrophores and ceased proliferation spontaneously .
After 7 months median visual acuity ( VA ) was 20 / 160 for the irradiated and 20 / 400 for the untreated patients .
Impaired CK1 delta activity attenuates SV40 - induced cellular transformation in vitro and mouse mammary carcinogenesis in vivo .
Levels of expression of CYR61 and CTGF are prognostic for tumor progression and survival of individuals with gliomas .
Evi - 1 associates with CtBP1 through one of the CtBP - binding consensus motifs within the region from amino acid 544 to 607 , and this association is required for the efficient inhibition of TGF - beta signaling .
RESULTS : IL - 12 - expressing RM - 9 prostate carcinoma cells transplanted into C57BL / J6 mice grew more slowly than control RM - 9 cells and vector control RM - 9 - Luc cells .
Glycolysis and glutaminolysis in perifused Ehrlich ascites tumour cells .
New bone formation was detected to be more rapid considering histologic parameters , in groups 3 and 4 at 4th and 16th weeks . Study demonstrates that PRP and PPP might have favorable effects on bone healing .
CONCLUSIONS : The combination of bevacizumab and irinotecan is safe and has excellent activity even in this relapsed , heavily pretreated population of patients with high - grade malignant glioma , most of whom would not be candidates for clinical trials .
Promotion of inflammation was also involved because lower TSP - 1 was able to up - regulate the adhesion molecules intercellular adhesion molecule - 1 and vascular cell adhesion molecule - 1 .
Mice primed with dimethyl - benz [ a ] anthracene ( DMBA ) were topically exposed to Cum - OOH ( 82 . 6 micromol ) or the positive control , 12 - O - tetradecanoylphorbol - 13 - acetate ( TPA , 17 nmol ) , twice weekly for 29 weeks .
METHODS : To evaluate antiangiogenic activity of cRGD - HL , we performed tests on endothelial cell adhesion and migration to vitronectin , tube formation , binding affinity to purified alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) integrin , and in vivo Matrigel plug assay .
Caspase - 3 is essential for procaspase - 9 processing and cisplatin - induced apoptosis of MCF - 7 breast cancer cells .
Aberrant expression of Evi - 1 has been frequently found in myeloid leukemia , and is associated with a poor patient survival .
Oxidation in rheumatoid arthritis .
EPOX inhibits angiogenesis by degradation of Mcl - 1 through ERK inactivation .
The effect of ATX secretion on in vitro cell motility was variable .
Integrins and growth factors are capable of activating the ras / MAP kinase pathway in vitro , yet how these signals influence endothelial cells during angiogenesis is unknown .
BACKGROUND : Angiogenesis is essential for tumor growth and relies on the production of angiogenic factors .
Alpha - melanocyte - stimulating hormone modulates activation of NF - kappa B and AP - 1 and secretion of interleukin - 8 in human dermal fibroblasts .
The transformation is a consequence of the ability of viruses to integrate into the host cell ' s DNA and to produce transforming proteins .
We have examined this hypothesis using a model that measures the neovascularization of an implanted foreign material .
Cooperative activation of Meis1 and Hoxa9 perturbs myeloid differentiation and eventually leads myeloid progenitors to leukemia , yet it remains to be clarified what kinds of subsequent molecular processes are required for development of overt leukemia .
High expression of c - Ski has been found in some cancers , including gastric cancer .
Although both hypomorphic heterozygotes developed intestinal polyps , tumor multiplicities were much lower than that in Apc ( Delta716 ) mice , heterozygotes of an Apc null allele .
Nerve growth factor ( NGF ) has been demonstrated to support survival and differentiation of neuroblastoma ( NB ) cells by activation of the TrkA receptor .
Sequence analysis revealed that this gene had 95 % homology with the LMP sequence of the B95 - 8 strain .
Comparison between RNA / DNA sequence of viral oncogenes and normal human genome of non - transformed cells revealed high sequence similarities in specific genomic areas , which were named cellular proto - oncogens .
Here , we investigated whether angiogenesis and tumor metastasis are dependent on hypoxia conditioning - induced TB4 expression in B16F10 melanoma cells .
p63 - positive carcinomas were poorly differentiated , hormone receptor - negative neoplasms with a high proliferation rate .
The marked induction of angiogenesis in glioblastomas suggests that it is a necessary part of malignant progression ; however , the precise molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of brain tumour growth and angiogenesis remain unresolved .
Here , we compared the sensitivity of RCC cells lacking VHL gene function with that of RCC cells expressing the wild - type VHL gene ( wtVHL ) after exposure to various stresses .
The Kaposi ' s sarcoma - associated herpesvirus ( KSHV ) encodes a G protein - coupled receptor ( vGPCR ) that has been implicated in the initiation of Kaposi ' s sarcoma , identifying vGPCR as an attractive target for preventing Kaposi ' s sarcoma .
Topoisomerase I protein expression in primary colorectal cancer and lymph node metastases .
Patients were followed up until bone metastases were established .
Metabolic thresholds were derived at tumor glucose utilization values of 70 . 6 + / - 8 . 3 mumol / 100 g / min for reduced protein synthesis , of 55 . 0 + / - 0 . 2 mumol / 100 g / min for the decrease in glucose content , and 34 . 7 + / - 4 . 7 mumol / 100 g / min for decline in ATP content .
We now report direct evidence that N1 ( ic ) must accumulate in the nucleus to induce transformation of RKE cells .
Cisplatin reduces endothelial cell migration via regulation of type 2 - matrix metalloproteinase activity .
Transforming growth factor - beta1 enhances tumour vascularization and microvessel maturation .
VEGF165 mediates formation of complexes containing VEGFR - 2 and neuropilin - 1 that enhance VEGF165 - receptor binding .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : U - 995 was designed to study human umbilical vein endothelial cell ( HUVEC ) migration and proliferation in vitro and angiogenesis induced by TNF alpha in chicken chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) .
Notch proteins are plasma membrane - spanning receptors that mediate important cell fate decisions such as differentiation , proliferation , and apoptosis .
There was no correlation of survivin with bcl - 2 or bax expression , or with other prognostic parameters ( age , tumor size , histologic type , histologic grade , nodal status , and tumor stage ) ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
IMPLICATIONS : These findings also contrast with the demonstration of nm23 metastasis suppressor activity in murine melanoma and with the correlation of loss of nm23 expression in breast cancer with poor prognosis .
We quantified the expression of alpha - SMA as a marker of myofibroblasts in the invasive breast cancer .
I .
With U937 cells , tunicamycin treatment resulted in the appearance of a 30 - 40 kDa band and increased staining of a 45 kDa band .
To sum up , our data suggest that the inhibition of metabolic pathways offers a novel and powerful therapeutic approach , which simultaneously inhibits tumor cell proliferation and tumor - induced angiogenesis .
The decline in circulating endothelial cells and their precursors suggests that this combination may be working by inhibiting angiogenesis but should be validated in a larger patient sample .
Furthermore , both PLD1 and PLD2 transformants , but not vector - transfectants , induced undifferentiated sarcoma when transplanted into nude mice .
Among them , 29 were gradually up - regulated whereas 17 were down - regulated with increasing metastatic potential .
Placental angiogenesis , which is physiologically normal , may serve as a general model of this process in other circumstances , such as tumor .
Compared with their corresponding single mutant littermates , the p18 ( - / - ) ; Men1 ( + / - ) mice develop tumors at an accelerated rate and with an increased incidence in the pituitary , thyroid , parathyroid , and pancreas .
Expression of hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 was localized to immune and granulosa cells of normal ovarian tissue .
Cancer 2010 .
Our objectives were to determine the safety and efficacy of rofecoxib in treating acute haemarthrosis , chronic synovitis , target joints and pain .
Exposure to activated platelet membranes and to soluble proteins contained in activated platelet releasate both contributed to the observed increase in invasion .
Combination of ATX expression with ras transformation produced cells with greatly amplified tumorigenesis and metastatic potential compared to ras - transformed controls .
After seizures , blood - brain barrier breakdown and inflammation is also observed in brain , albeit on a lower scale than that observed after stroke .
Glutamine consumption in the presence of glucose was higher than with glutamine alone .
Mice with tumor xenograft and experimental metastasis model were used to evaluate effects on tumor growth and metastasis .
Expression of both receptors was studied in biopsy samples from 92 patients ( 6 males and 86 females ; age ranging from 28 to 86 years , mean 56 years ) .
RESULTS : Abnormal E - cadherin and beta - catenin staining correlated with depth of tumour invasion in differentiated - type tumours .
With the enhancement of FPC concentration , the authors observed chromatin condensation in some phases companying with the characteristic apoptosis .
To explore the gene expression changes that occur downstream of ELK - 1 dephosphorylation , we used a combination of temporal gene expression data and promoter element analyses .
Our data may have implications for the development of novel regimens for diabetic retinopathy .
We investigated the biological significance of estrogen receptors ( ERs ) in NIH3T3 cell transformation by the [ 12Val ] K - Ras mutant .
Modulation of apoptosis in human myeloid leukemic cells by GM - CSF .
Convergence of p53 and TGF - beta signaling networks .
Therapeutic angiogenesis : a complex problem requiring a sophisticated approach .
Heating and protease treatment of the stimulants reduced the VEGF enhancing levels in Ve and OMP in vitro .
Previous studies reported that the Tumor Susceptibility Gene 101 ( TSG101 ) is upregulated in selected human malignancies , and the expression of exogenous Tsg101 was suggested to transform immortalized fibroblasts in culture .
METHODS : Tumor biopsy specimens and serum were obtained from 37 neuroblastoma patients ; adrenal biopsy sections and sera of 7 normal children served as controls .
Oxygen consumption of HepG2 cells supported by either pyruvate / malate or succinate was inhibited when cells were pre - incubated with 3 - BrPA in glucose - free medium .
CONCLUSION : PDT preserves vision in patients with CNV associated with PM .
The expression of metallothionein - 1 ( Mt - 1 ) gene , which is regulated by GR , was induced significantly by the combination of DMI and FA , and enhanced significantly by pretreatment with FA but not DMI .
CONCLUSIONS : Insulin increases VEGF mRNA and secreted protein levels in RPE cells through enhanced transcription of the VEGF gene .
Tumour angiogenesis : its mechanism and therapeutic implications in malignant gliomas .
KISS1 methylation was associated with low KISS1 transcript expression by quantitative RT - PCR ( P = 0 . 037 ) .
RESULTS : In lymphomatous tissue , [ 18F ] FDG uptake rates were similar in overnight fasting and euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp ( 38 + / - 10 versus 41 + / - 9 mumol / 100 g / minute , not significant ) , whereas glucose uptake in skeletal muscle was increased by insulin ( 1 . 7 + / - 0 . 2 versus 3 . 8 + / - 0 . 5 mumol / 100 g / minute , P = 0 . 012 ) .
OBJECTIVE : We transfected ovarian cancer cells and administered recombinant plasmid encoding hPNAS - 4 to nude mice bearing ovarian cancer , aiming to evaluate the effect of hPNAS - 4 against ovarian cancer in vitro and in vivo .
Patients with other genetic blistering disorders do not have elevated collagenase or an increased risk of squamous cell carcinoma , despite chronic wounding .
These findings suggest that poorly vascularized neuroblastomas become immature and maintain a more aggressive phenotype , which possibly could involve a sustained stabilization and activation of HIF - 2alpha .
These results also suggest therapeutic implications concerning Wnt signaling inhibitors .
In comparison , by day 24 , the majority of groups also treated with prednisolone displayed significantly less corneal clouding and neovascularization .
To investigate the potential role of BI - 1 in promoting cell growth and tumorigenesis , in the present study we overexpressed the BI - 1 gene in NIH3T3 cells using the lentivirus - mediated gene expression system .
A preponderance of work has been focused on the molecular mechanisms underlying this effect , with the expectation that a mechanistic understanding may lead to novel therapeutic approaches .
Activity of several transcriptional factors located downstream in the Akt pathway was also tested , and constitutive activation of adenosine 3 ' , 5 ' - monophosphate response element - binding protein ( CREB ) by ICAM - 3 was detected .
These results suggest that SWAP - 70 may be required for oncogenic transformation and contributes to cell growth in MEFs transformed by v - Src .
Here we demonstrate that ablation of IL - 17F significantly inhibits spontaneous intestinal tumorigenesis in the small intestine of Apc ( Min / + ) mice .
The paper reviews the data available in the literature on a role of the tumor suppressor ARF in oncogenesis and considers the structure of a gene encoding ARF protein .
Interestingly , we find that the deletion of miR - BHRF1 - 2 reduced the expression level of miR - BHRF1 - 3 and possibly that of miR - BHRF1 - 1 , demonstrating that the expression of one miRNA can potentiate the expression of other miRNAs located in the same cluster .
A novel integrin alpha5beta1 antagonistic peptide , A5 - 1 , screened by Protein Chip system as a potent angiogenesis inhibitor .
However , most current anti - VEGF agents often cause some side effects when given chronically .
Pouch vascular volume and permeability changes were studied by fractional distributions of radiotracers and were analyzed by a variety of statistical methods which explored the vascular parameters , treatment types , elapsed time , presence of the carcinogen , and histopathologic changes .
Two major type IV collagenolytic metalloproteinases exhibiting molecular weights of 64 , 000 and 88 , 000 , respectively , were detected by this method .
PD98059 , a specific MAPK / ERK kinase ( MEK ) 1 inhibitor , did not affect the induction of ets - 1 mRNA , whereas SB203580 , a specific p38 inhibitor , almost completely abrogated its induction .
[ Expression and mutation of c - kit gene in gastrointestinal stromal tumor ] .
In experimental RG1 2 . 2 glioma of rat brain , local blood flow , glucose utilization , protein synthesis , glucose and ATP content were measured by means of triple tracer autoradiography and bioluminescence technique , respectively , to determine hemodynamic and metabolic thresholds for local tumor energy failure .
OBJECTIVE : Although DCC has been considered as a candidate tumor suppressor , the roles it plays in the uterine endometrium and in the carcinogenic process remains unclear .
Our results suggest heterogeneity in angiogenic activity and vessel maturation of CC - RCC , to a large extent linked to nuclear grade , and , with probable therapeutic implications .
Transient circulating levels of angioactive molecules and serial high - resolution imaging studies of focal angiogenesis might help .
A series of our studies revealed that for activation of the invasion pathway of EGFR , it is prerequisite that Arf6 and AMAP1 both are highly overexpressed , and that EGFR is activated by ligands .
CONCLUSIONS : SREBP is activated during and plays a critical role in ECs migration .
This enhanced glycolysis was partly sensitive to rutamycin and partly sensitive to ouabain , suggesting that the detergent released the control of the ATPase of the mitochondria and of the plasma membrane Na + K + - ATPase .
The 3 - year disease - free survival ( DFS ) and overall survival ( OS ) of patients with tumors expressing different levels of COUP - TFII were evaluated by the Kaplan - Meier method .
Our results indicated that HTPB was a pan - HDAC inhibitor in suppressing cell viability specifically of lung cancer cells but not of the normal lung cells .
The capillary density in group 1 ( ischemia + L - NIL ) was significantly different from group 2 ( ischemia + saline ) ; group 1 : 360 . 33 + / - 77 . 02 , group 2 : 549 + / - 81 . 85 / mm2 , p < 0 . 05 ) . In addition , expression of HIF1alpha was significantly increased in ischemic groups ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
We have previously reported that intercellular adhesion molecule - 3 ( ICAM - 3 ) is associated with an increase of cellular radio - resistance and cancer cell proliferation .
It is suggested that MMP - 9 may have a role in the LMP1 - induced acceleration of invasion and metastasis of NPC cells .
Following i . v . infusion with [ 13C ] alanine , [ 13C ] lactate and glutamate , evidence of oxidation via the TCA cycle , were observed in H4 tumors .
In this study , we examined whether all - trans - retinoic acid ( all - trans - RA ) and other retinoids , which exhibit antitumor activity in vitro and in vivo , affect the collagenolytic activity of metastatic rat 13762NF mammary adenocarcinoma cells .
The effect of platelets on the content of urokinase plasminogen activator ( uPA ) and VEGF in SKOV3 cell conditioned medium was measured using an ELISA assay .
Development of a mouse model for lymph node metastasis with endometrial cancer .
The rapid down - regulation of Tie1 by shear stress changes and its rapid binding to Tie2 may be required for destabilization of endothelial cells in order to initiate the process of vascular restructuring .
OBJECT : Endothelial proliferation has been recognized as a marker of high - grade or aggressive glioma .
The vascular insulin - like growth factor ( IGF ) - 1 system includes the IGFs , the IGF - 1 receptor ( IGF - 1R ) , and multiple binding proteins .
Genomic instability is one mechanism proposed to play a role in the disease progression of chronic myeloid leukemia ( CML ) .
Aberrant angiogenesis is often associated with lesion formation in chronic periodontitis .
The stromal fibrous reaction associated to infiltrating carcinomas is responsible of focal increased density , and architectural distorsion , ultrasound acoustic shadowing ; abnormal neoangiogenesis can be detected by Doppler , CT or MR imaging .
Groups 1 and 2 consisted of 48 patients without DR and 42 patients with PDR , respectively .
After 21 days , the serum concentration of nitrite , capillary density and expression of HIF1alpha were determined .
We show that both substitution of glucose for pyruvate and treatment with 2 - deoxyglucose enhanced apoptosis induced by tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) - alpha , CD95 agonistic antibody , and TNF - related apoptosis - inducing ligand ( TRAIL ) .
Raising the albino mice in the dark prevented both events .
We defined the role of c - Myc in cancer cell sensitivity to vinblastine ( VLB ) using human colon cancer cells : LoVo wild - type or transfected with a plasmid containing the human c - myc gene in antisense orientation ( LoVo - mycANS ) .
CONCLUSION : c - kit protein is an important diagnostic marker of gastrointestinal stromal tumor .
As TGF - beta is a potent negative growth regulator of hematopoietic cells , investigations were undertaken to determine whether inactivation of the receptor by microsatellite alteration might be involved in the progression of CML .
Metastatic carcinoma of unknown primary origin is a perplexing but common problem , accounting for up to 10 % to 15 % of all solid tumors at presentation .
Our observations indicate that combined inactivation of PIM - 1 and PIM - 2 interferes with oncogenic PTKs and suggest that PIMs are alternative therapeutic targets in PTK - mediated leukemia .
Although it is well known that Wnt signaling is frequently dysregulated in melanoma , the functional implications of this observation are unclear .
Enhanced IGF - 1 expression improves smooth muscle cell engraftment after cell transplantation .
Cancer is a disease largely dependent on neoangiogenesis .
[ Correlation between expression of vascular endothelial growth factor - C in tumor - associated macrophages and lymphatic metastasis in oral cancer ] .
Our results show that caffeine significantly inhibits adenosine - induced HIF - 1alpha protein accumulation in cancer cells .
TEL is a member of the ETS family of transcription factors that interacts with the mSin3 and SMRT corepressors to regulate transcription .
A uniform left ventricular injury was produced in female rats using a cryoprobe .
When a confluent monolayer of human umbilical vein endothelial cell line , ECV304 , was denuded , ECV304 at the wound edge expressed Ets - 1 .
The expression of VEGFs did not correlate with either lymphatic density or neck metastasis .
[ An experimental study on angiogenesis of non - vascularized autogenous bone graft with vascular bundle implantation ]
It also promotes endothelial differentiation into capillary - like structures in an in vitro assay and is angiogenic in the chick chorionallantoic membrane .
The inhibition of fibrinolysis or proteases decreased the primary tumor growth and pulmonary metastasis , whereas the activation of fibrinolysis or proteases increased the number of metastatic foci in the lung .
In the absence of both GM - CSF and fetal bovine serum ( FBS ) , 70 % of the DNA was fragmented after 3 days in culture , with a characteristic apoptotic ladder - like pattern on agarose gel electrophoresis , whereas this proportion had initially been < 5 % .
Addition of the caspase inhibitor Z - VAD . fmk inhibited caspase 8 and 3 significantly but did not affect caspase 9 .
Based on its role in malignant transformation , apoptosis , and cell proliferation , the transcription factor NF - kappaB / Rel has gained the attention of many laboratories .
Insufficient angiogenesis occurs in diseases such as coronary artery disease , stroke and chronic wounds .
hTERT activity is associated with nodal metastases and cellular proliferation .
Immunohistochemical staining demonstrated VEGF in the tissues surrounding the Matrigel plugs containing AdCMV . VEGF165 up to 3 weeks after injection , whereas no VEGF was found in the control plugs with AdCMV . beta gal .
These results suggest that L - Car , possibly via its free radical scavenging and antioxidant properties , ameliorates MTX - induced oxidative organ injury and inhibits leukocyte apoptosis .
In 1986 , Dvorak went on to demonstrate that VPF was secreted by a variety of human tumor cell lines and proposed that VPF was in part responsible for the abnormal vasculature seen in human tumors .
CONCLUSIONS : PDT can reduce the clinical signs of activity , such as choroidal hyperpermeability or neurosensorial retinal detachment , in patients affected by chronic CSC .
VTAs inhibit specific factors required to induce and direct the angiogenic process , with major activity against small tumor masses and at the tumor periphery , encompassing monoclonal antibodies and small molecules inhibitors of the tyrosine kinase domain of the VEGF receptor .
ELISA found the presence of vascular endothelial growth factors ( VEGF ) both in the tested oral cancer cells and NOK .
These results suggest that point mutations in p53 and ras are not associated with pituitary tumorigenesis , however , point mutations of the H - ras gene may be important in the formation and or growth of pituitary metastases .
We performed comparative proteomic and pathway analysis of four human metastatic HCC cell lines to identify metastasis - associated proteins .
PCNSLs with HRK methylation also showed methylation of multiple genes , such as p14ARF , p16INK4a , RB1 , p27Kip1 and O6 - MGMT .
In these breast cancers activated Akt fails to inactivate and re - localize FOXO3a to the cytoplasm , and nuclear - targeted FOXO3a does not induce cell death or cell cycle arrest .
We therefore hypothesized that ANG II could be a mediator between homeostatic changes within the vascular perfusion bed and growth factor - driven angiogenesis .
Although , the growth of all three cell lines was suppressed by DMI , it was more effective in Ca3 / 7 cells .
beta - catenin signaling controls metastasis in Braf - activated Pten - deficient melanomas .
Neoplastic transformation and tumorigenesis associated with overexpression of phospholipase D isozymes in cultured murine fibroblasts .
It is synthesised and secreted by the ciliary body epithelium ( CBE ) from the initiation of CBE development in the embryo , and production continues throughout life .
This model will be useful for understanding mechanisms underlying vascular and angiogenic neoplasias , as well as for testing drugs designed to curtail aberrant EC growth .
RESULTS : The expression rates of Merlin protein in NSCLC and normal lung tissue sections were 73 . 33 % and 15 . 56 % , respectively ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Fluroquinolone antibiotics such as ciprofloxacin , which can be administered p . o . , may have a profound effect in bladder cancer management .
Unirradiated animals showed equal neovascularization of both implants .
In colonic carcinoma specimens , the peritumoral vessels expressed a high density of somatostatin receptors , whereas the neoplastic tissue itself was receptor - negative in many cases .
PTHrP drives breast tumor initiation , progression , and metastasis in mice and is a potential therapy target .
Lymph nodes metastasis of tumor could be a crucial early step in the metastatic process .
In contrast , MMP - 9 expression was higher in stage III - IV NSCLC cases compared to stage I - II tumors ( p < 0 . 05 ) and higher in NSCLC cases with metastasis than those without metastasis ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
We show that restoration of FOXO3a in FOXO3a - deficient LAC cells increases sensitivity to apoptosis caused by a DNA - damaging intermediate of NNK .
Previously , we reported that in vitro M - CSF induces the expression of biologically - active VEGF from human monocytes .
Consistent with the decrease in lymph node metastasis , tumor lymphangiogenesis and expression of vascular endothelial growth factor C ( VEGF - C ) was significantly decreased in artemisinin - treated mice , as compared to control mice .
BACKGROUND : The Ras association domain family 1 ( RASSF1 ) gene is a Ras effector encoding two major mRNA forms , RASSF1A and RASSF1C , derived by alternative promoter selection and alternative mRNA splicing .
Injection of VEGF - neutralizing antibodies over a 2 - week period completely blocked alinidine - stimulated angiogenesis .
Additionally , the angiogenic and lymphangiogenic profiles of the tumors were characterized .
In this study , we demonstrate that two independent downstream signal pathways , DCN / EGFR / ERK1 / 2 and DCN / EGFR / phosphoinositide - 3 kinase / AKT , mediate up - regulation and activation of transcription factors of VEGF such as HIF1alpha , Stat3 , and Sp1 and increase VEGF transcription and angiogenesis in MCE cells .
It is involved in a number of physiologic and pathologic events including angiogenesis , apoptosis , inflammation , wound healing and tumor metastasis .
Here , we show that NCAM - deficient beta cell tumors grew leaky blood vessels with perturbed pericyte - endothelial cell - cell interactions and deficient perivascular deposition of ECM components .
Pericytes limit tumor cell metastasis .
Dll4 is one of the Notch ligands that regulates arterial specification and maturation events .
Studies were therefore performed with PECAM - 1 - null mice to further define the involvement of PECAM - 1 in blood vessel formation .
Of the 14 tumors that expressed CD40 , all but 1 ( 93 % ) had either nodal or systemic metastasis at the time of diagnosis .
[ Study on the expression of angiogenesis and spontaneous apoptosis and their relevance in laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma ]
Increased numbers of mast cells have been associated with several types of angiogenesis .
Acad .
Carcinogenesis and transcriptional regulation through Maf recognition elements .
Marked angiogenesis is induced by implantation of a chamber containing RENCA cells into mice .
The effects of this compound on the vascular development lend credibility to its potential as an anticancer agent .
Epithelial - mesenchymal transitions ( EMTs ) occur as key steps during embryonic morphogenesis , and are now implicated in the progression of primary tumors towards metastases .
The procedure is based on the use of a central skeleton of uteroglobin , a small and very soluble covalently linked homodimeric protein that is very resistant to proteolytic enzymes and to pH variations .
Suppression and re - expression of transformed phenotype in hybrids of HA - ras - 1 - transformed rat - 1 cells and early - passage rat embryonic fibroblasts .
However , functions of HMGA2 in tumorigenesis are not fully understood due to limited knowledge of its targets in tumor cells .
Recent advances have fostered a more detailed understanding of molecular mechanisms and networks governing EMT in tumor progression .
Dynein light chain 1 , a p21 - activated kinase 1 - interacting substrate , promotes cancerous phenotypes .
Depletion of polyphenol with polyvinylpyrrolidone abolished the antiangiogenic activity of GSE , suggesting a water - soluble fraction of polyphenol in GSE is responsible for the antiangiogenic activity .
A major step forwards in the treatment of solid tumors is the recognition of the tumor - associated vasculature as an important target for therapy .
Repression of E - cadherin by transcriptional regulators such as Snail or Twist emerges as one critical step driving EMT , and this stage is currently being molecularly linked with many of the new players .
Protein kinase C levels in several transformed cell lines were subject to down modulation in a similar growth state - dependent manner .
Commonality exists in the processes involved in vasculature development between tissues whether healthy or diseased .
Significant correlation between the osteoblastic marker BAP , TGF - beta1 , and bFGF suggests strain - activated osteoblastic cells as a major source of systemically increased bone growth factors during callus distraction .
Strong positive expression of mEndostatin was seen in the tumor tissue after injection of Ad - mEndostatin , immunhistochemically ostained by mouse endostatin monoclonal antibody , while the control groups showed only very low expression or absence .
Furthermore , we have searched for the underlying mechanisms of apoptosis by demonstrating apoptosis - related genes .
The microcirculation of most tumors includes cooperation of pre - existing vessels , intussusceptive microvascular growth , postnatal vasculogenesis , glomeruloid angiogenesis and vasculogenic mimicry ( VM ) .
This action is not observed with uninfected CEF , and , therefore , appears to require some expression of the viral src gene in the target cells .
Taxol at 10 ( - 6 ) and 10 ( - 7 ) M completely inhibited angiogenesis , while Taxol 10 ( - 8 ) and 10 ( - 9 ) M and the heparin - steroid partially inhibited angiogenesis .
The number of lymph node metastases was significantly higher in HEC1A / VEGF - C cells than in HEC1A cells ( 3 . 2 vs 1 . 1 nodes / animal , respectively ) .
There was also an up - regulation of Bax , which altered the Bax : Bcl - 2 ratio , which may be responsible for mitochondrial depolarization reported to be involved prior to the induction of apoptosis .
Consequently , hPNAS - 4 has potential as a new gene therapy for human ovarian cancer .
Therefore we aimed to study the effects of simvastatin ( Sim ) on malignant B cells derived from patients with CLL and mechanisms of action of the drug .
By using immunohistochemistry , Western blot , and real - time PCR the expression patterns of TSP - 1 , TSP - 2 , CD36 , CD47 , MMP - 2 , and MMP - 9 were investigated in normal rat prostate tissue and five malignant Dunning sublines tissue .
These effects translated into a 2 . 2 - to 229 . 0 - fold increase in the cytotoxic activity of ara - C against clonogenic leukemic cells after GM - CSF or IL - 3 pretreatment .
These accelerated relapses occur within 10 months of surgery for untreated patients .
RESULTS : Bevacizumab treatment was followed by reductions in retinal hemorrhage , exudation , and edema .
Moreover , U - 995 ( 30 micrograms / ml ) markedly prevented collagenase - induced collagenolysis .
The efficacy of the antitumor activity of 1 ' - acetoxychavicol acetate ( ACA ) , reported to be a suppressor of chemically induced carcinogenesis , was evaluated in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells .
Moreover , the conditioned medium from TFs was found to be able to promote ESCC tumor cell growth , migration , and invasion in vitro .
A two sided correlation between the expression of TKTL1 and LDH5 could be shown ( p = 0 . 002 ) within the overall cohort as well as for each grading and pN group .
Bilateral central lymphadenectomy was performed in all patients in addition to thyroidectomy .
These findings indicate that vGPCR may play a key role in Kaposi ' s sarcoma progression and provide experimental justification for developing molecular - based therapies specifically targeting vGPCR and its effectors for the treatment of Kaposi ' s sarcoma patients .
Fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 - positive fibroblasts provide a suitable microenvironment for tumor development and progression in esophageal carcinoma .
In spheroids , the glucose consumption ( 2 . 1 p mole / cell / h ) and lactate production ( 3 . 67 p mole / cell / h ) was nearly 2 - 3 fold higher than in monolayer cells ( 0 . 83 and 1 . 43 p mole / cell / h respectively ) .
In order to study whether ATX expression affects motility - dependent processes such as invasion and metastasis , we stably transfected full - length ATX cDNA into two non - expressing cell lines , parental and ras - transformed NIH3T3 ( clone7 ) cells .
Under serum - starvation conditions , decreased growth rate , slow rounding - up of cells , cell detachment , and formation of apoptotic bodies indicative of anoikis ( detachment - induced apoptosis ) were preceded by significant downregulation of 70 kDa clusterin precursor and upregulation of 45 - 40 kDa isoforms .
Taken together , these results show for the first time that active RhoA is able to transform FRTL - 5 cells and that this effect is coupled to a loss of thyroid differentiation due to impaired TTF - 1 activity .
The decreased expression of SEMA3B , SEMA3F , and plexin - A3 was confirmed in stage 3 ovarian tumors .
FVIIa - induced antiapoptotic effect was dependent on its proteolytic activity and TF but independent of factor Xa and thrombin .
Orthogonal polarization spectral imaging showed no difference in functional capillary density between the scaffolds cultured on chorioallantoic membranes .
TS expression of the primary oral cancer cells in the group with lymph node metastasis was higher than that of those without .
The findings in the tissue samples were analyzed with regard to the patients ' risk factors and clinical course .
Abnormal expression of E - cadherin and beta - catenin may be a molecular marker of submucosal invasion and lymph node metastasis in early gastric cancer .
Induction of tumor lymphangiogenesis by vascular endothelial growth factor - D may play an important role in promoting tumor metastasis to regional lymph nodes and these processes can be inhibited by inactivation of the VEGFR - 3 signaling pathway .
The Mr 64 , 000 enzyme could be extracted from viable cells ( presumably from the cell membrane ) by 2 % 1 - butanol .
Attenuation of NF - kappaB activation by TSC phenolic fraction was associated with significant decrease of intracellular PKC substrate phosphorylation in BPDE treated cells .
Down syndrome critical region gene 1 ( DSCR - 1 ) short variant ( DSCR - 1s ) is an inhibitor of calcineurin / NFAT signaling encoded by exons 4 - 7 of DSCR1 .
All genes except those encoding angiotensinogen and epoxide hydrolase ( that were decreased ) , and 12 - lipoxygenase and vascular endothelial growth factor ( that showed no change ) , were significantly up - regulated in GK islets .
Three weeks later , 2 x 10 ( 6 ) cells from three groups were implanted into the scar .
In this report , we demonstrate that murine bone marrow contains endothelial progenitors , which arise from a cell with self - renewing capacity , and can integrate into tumor microvasculature , albeit at a very low frequency .
It has been widely accepted that p53 acts in response to stresses and abnormalities in cell physiology by mobilizing the repair processes or by removing the diseased cells through initiating the cell death programs .
In this review , the mechanisms and factors involved in tumor blood vessel formation are discussed .
Another interesting cell type is the endothelial progenitor cell ( EPC ) , whose numbers increase in the presence of vascular damage .
Actin signaling controls serum response factor ( SRF ) activity via SRF interaction with the myocardin - related transcriptional activator ( MRTF ) - A and tethering to a single CArG box sequence within the CCN1 promoter .
The safety and efficacy of rofecoxib treatment were determined based on subjective patient reports and physical examinations during follow - up clinic visits .
Hemostasis and mechanism of action of selective antimetastatic drugs in mice bearing Lewis lung carcinoma .
Increases in these mRNA levels were similar in tumors of both low and high metastatic potential .
MMP2 and MMP9 activity were determined by zymographic assay , and MAPK activation by Western blotting analysis .
Expression of CDK4 or CDK2 in mouse oral cavity is retained in adult pituitary with distinct effects on tumorigenesis .
However , biochemical screening cannot reliably discriminate the transition from C - cell hyperplasia to invasive microcarcinoma .
Silencing of directional migration in roundabout4 knockdown endothelial cells .
Eight founder and progeny mice of 5 different lines were monitored for leukemogenesis .
Diabetic mice , which typically show impaired postischemic muscular neovascularization and blood perfusion recovery , have these defects corrected by intramuscular gene transfer of a dominant negative mutant form of p75 ( NTR ) .
Among the most potent of the angiogenic factors is vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
Here we report that CCL16 activates an angiogenic program in vascular endothelial cells by activating CCR1 .
Effect of ROS on angiogenesis in tumors expressing hot - spot p53 mutants was correlated with their ability to increase a content of HIF1 transcriptional factor responsible for up - regulation of VEGF - A mRNAs .
Historically , PDT has been limited by a lack of suitable photosensitive dyes .
In vitro studies , the results indicated that DATS induced morphological changes and induction of apoptosis in CT26 cells .
Pharmacological inhibition of autophagic flux by chloroquine increased apoptosis and decreased cell viability in hepatoma cells .
Double mutants developed oocytes and became sterile females that produced only aberrant embryos and showed elevated risk for invasive ovarian tumors .
Erbb2 ablation reduced the UV - induced activation of PI3K while inhibition of PI3K / Akt increased UV - induced S - phase arrest .
TNFalpha is an important inflammation cytokine and is crucial to the development of inflammation - associated cancers .
OBJECTIVES : This study sought to assess the cellular and histologic basis of irreversible pulmonary hypertension ( PHT ) in the clinical setting of congenital heart disease ( CHD ) .
This observed genomic instability will be of value in predicting the potential metastatic behavior of these aggressive pituitary tumors .
In the current study , the impact of VEGF expression on the response of tumors to the VEGFR2 associated tyrosine kinase inhibitor vandetanib was evaluated .
Silencing of monocarboxylate transporters via small interfering ribonucleic acid inhibits glycolysis and induces cell death in malignant glioma : an in vitro study .
Role of the fibrinolytic and matrix metalloproteinase systems in development of adipose tissue .
CONCLUSIONS : We found that insulin does not induce major changes in glucose uptake of lymphomatous tissue .
CD82 expression was significantly reduced in lymph node metastases .
These data suggest that VEGF plays a key role in the angiogenic response that occurs with chronic bradycardia .
As for adverse events , only pigmentation of the skin and Grade 2 oral aphta were observed .
At this time , the cells ' growth is arrested at very high density , and no differentiated morphologic characteristics are observed .
In a xenograft model metronomic CPT - 11 , but not 5 - FU and L - OHP , significantly inhibits HT - 29 tumor growth and microvessel density in the absence of toxicity .
Upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor receptors is associated with advanced neuroblastoma .
Ectopic expression of Cdc25a prevented UV - induced S - phase arrest in keratinocytes lacking Erbb2 activity , demonstrating that maintenance of Cdc25a by Erbb2 suppresses cell cycle arrest .
This result indicates that CREB functions in the signaling pathway between Akt and MMP .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is one of the most potent and a specific regulator of angiogenesis which principally targets endothelial cells and regulates several of their functions , including mitogenesis , permeability and migration .
Glucocorticoid receptor ( GR ) activation has recently been shown to inhibit apoptosis in breast epithelial cells .
Angiostatin and thalidomide both inhibited tumor growth by about 55 % .
The increased transport rate is a consequence of an increased number of transporters in the transformed cells .
We are increasingly aware that cellular metabolism plays a vital role in diseases such as cancer , and that p53 is an important regulator of metabolic pathways .
Overexpression of Evi - 1 increased Pbx1 expression in hematopoietic stem / progenitor cells .
TC - PTP PTPase expression was only slightly increased in these neu transformed cells , and no expression of CD45 PTPase was observed .
14 diabetics with chronic nonhealing wounds which did not respond to treatment for at least 3 months were treated by HBO .
The ras - encoded proteins are similar to regulatory G - proteins and are candidates for the unknown G - protein that modulates phosphatidylinositol ( PI ) turnover .
SPARC maybe involved in the regulation of anti - angiogenesis by which it may serve as a novel target for colon cancer treatment as well as a novel distinctive marker .
These data provide a mechanism whereby VASP can influence endothelial migration and organization during capillary formation and modulate vascular permeability via effects on endothelial cell contractility .
Wnt signaling , stem cells , and the cellular origin of breast cancer .
This hypothesis in humans can be tested only by intervention trials that are in progress .
Trib1 and Evi1 were up - regulated due to retroviral insertions , and coexpression of these genes significantly accelerated the onset of Hoxa9 / Meis1 - induced AML , suggesting that Trib1 and Evi1 are the key collaborators .
Ba / F3 cells transformed to growth factor independence by various oncogenic PTKs ( TEL / JAK2 , TEL / TRKC , TEL / ABL , BCR / ABL , FLT3 - ITD , and H4 / PDGFbetaR ) show abundant expression of PIM - 1 and PIM - 2 .
The results imply that various different proteins may lead to HCC metastasis together .
In addition , a reduction in tumor volume of Grm1 - mouse - melanocytic - allografts was detected in the presence of small interfering AKT2 RNA ( siAKT2 ) .
Depletion of Rab7a decreased VEGFR2 Y1175 phosphorylation but increased p42 / 44 ( pERK1 / 2 ) MAPK phosphorylation .
RESULTS : Of the 13 treated patients , 10 ( 77 % ) had a radiologically demonstrated partial response and 3 ( 23 % ) had stable disease .
However , PC12 cells do not precisely reflect the pathogenesis of malignant cells .
In addition , PPARgamma protein was not detected in all of the eight carcinomas in which COX - 2 protein was detected , suggesting that expression of PPARgamma and COX - 2 was in a reciprocal relationship .
Blockade of angiogenesis is an important approach for cancer treatment and prevention .
Here we targeted M2 - PK by synthetic peptide aptamers , which specifically bind to M2 - PK and shift the isoenzyme into its low affinity dimeric conformation .
An analysis of the Pbx1 promoter region revealed that Evi - 1 upregulates Pbx1 transcription .
In most cases treatment was associated with decreased vascular leakage , stabilization , or improved vision .
The elimination half - life when administered i . m . was found to be 3 . 0 h in the serum and 4 . 3 h in the cellular fraction of the blood .
However , the 5 - year survival rate of patients with high MMP - 9 protein expression were lower than those with low expression ( 19 vs . 4 . 7 % , p < 0 . 05 ) .
In this study we investigated the serum VEGF level ( s - VEGF ) in patients with renal cell carcinoma ( RCC ) .
It was demonstrated that ovarian tumor tissue lysates and ovarian cancer cell lines express hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 .
Extensive regulation contributes to normal growth control , abrogation of regulatory controls contributes to uncontrolled growth as seen with erb B transformation and EGF receptor gene amplification in human tumors .
Expression , regulation , and function of IGF - 1 , IGF - 1R , and IGF - 1 binding proteins in blood vessels .
Normal cells contain suppressor gene ( s ) which safeguard these cells against transformation by the product of the transforming Ha - ras - 1 oncogene .
Normal cells mostly rely on mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation to produce energy .
We previously characterized a secreted fibroblast growth factor - binding protein ( FGF - BP ) as a chaperone molecule , which binds to various FGFs , enhances FGF - mediated biochemical and biologic events and importantly is a crucial rate - limiting factor for tumor - dependent angiogenesis .
BAG - 1 regulates cellular growth , differentiation and survival through interactions with diverse proteins , including the vitamin D receptor ( VDR ) , a key regulator of keratinocyte growth and differentiation .
The apparent molecular weights of the collagenolytic enzymes were determined by electrophoresis of cell extracts and concentrated conditioned medium in type IV collagen - embedded polyacrylamide gels followed by renaturation and activation of the enzymes within the gels .
Mutants of TEL that removed a binding site for the mSin3A corepressor but retained the ETS domain failed to repress stromelysin - 1 .
Such activity was abolished in mechanically stimulated mouse MRTF - A ( - / - ) cells or upon inhibition of CREB - binding protein ( CBP ) histone acetyltransferase ( HAT ) either pharmacologically or by siRNAs .
The results showed that betulin significantly inhibited cell viability in cervix carcinoma HeLa cells , hepatoma HepG2 cells , lung adenocarcinoma A549 cells , and breast cancer MCF - 7 cells with IC ( 50 ) values ranging from 10 to 15 microg / mL .
The tumor may present with widespread metastases that are unresponsive to aggressive treatment .
METHODS : After immunohistochemical staining , light microscope was used for counting macrophages and automated image analysis quantification was used to determine VEGF - C expression , which was reflected by positive index ( PI ) .
Effect of thalidomide affecting VEGF secretion , cell migration , adhesion and capillary tube formation of human endothelial EA . hy 926 cells .
Non - specific PKC inhibitors staurosporine and bisindolylmaleimide II as well as inhibitors specific to conventional PKCs ( Go6976 ) and PKC - delta ( rottlerin ) attenuated NF - kappaB activation in BPDE treated cells to a varying degree indicating a possible link between PKC down - regulation and the attenuation of NF - kappaB activity by TSC phenolic fraction .
Cancer progression and p53 .
CONCLUSIONS : PE is a useful prognostic predictor of CR and OS for AML / MDS patients .
In addition , reverse transcription - polymerase chain reaction and prostaglandin E ( 2 ) ( PGE ( 2 ) ) immunoassay were performed to verify whether BV possesses an inhibitory effect on the expression of cyclooxygenase ( COX ) and PGE ( 2 ) synthesis .
In this study , the expression of C / EBPbeta was analysed in a series of 90 gastric carcinomas ( GCs ) .
Although the number of mutations in the APC and beta - catenin genes in our CRC cases was very low , the study confirms the role of epigenetic gene silencing of the pivotal molecular gladiator , APC , of the Wnt pathway in the development of CRC in the Kashmiri population .
FOXO3a is a transcription factor that elicits a protective response to diverse cellular stresses .
Store - operated calcium entry promotes shape change in pulmonary endothelial cells expressing Trp1 .
An intradermal angiogenesis assay was used to demonstrate that a 4 - day treatment with vandetanib ( 50 mg / kg / day ) was able to significantly inhibit blood vessel growth induced by both parental and high VEGF - expressing tumor cell clones .
Other anti - angiogenic therapies alter the immune response and endogeneous angiogenesis inhibitor levels .
We previously reported that VEGF induces DSCR - 1s expression in endothelial cells , which in turn negatively feeds back to attenuate endothelial cell activation .
In this study , we have examined the ability of the purine analogue 8 - aminoadenosine to acutely reduce glucose consumption by regulating localization and expression of key glucose transporters .
For distraction of the human mandible in elderly patients , a distraction rate of 0 . 5 mm / day seems beneficial .
Semaphorins comprise a family of molecules that influence neuronal growth and guidance .
Human thyroid tumours represent an example of the interplay of genetic and non genetic carcinogenesis .
Robo4 knockdown endothelial cells unexpectedly show up regulation of Rho GTPases .
In this study we demonstrate that exposure of primary cultures of cardiac and vascular cells to hypoxia or AdCA5 , an adenovirus encoding a constitutively active form of HIF - 1alpha , modulates the expression of genes encoding the angiogenic factors angiopoietin - 1 ( ANGPT1 ) , ANGPT2 , placental growth factor , and platelet - derived growth factor - B .
Excluding N - stage , vascular grade was the only independent prognostic factor ( P = 0 . 007 ) .
Prior to this cellular outcome , FOXO3a is functionally activated and mediates a large - scale transcription program in response to this damage involving a significant modulation of 440 genes .
Treatment with anti - Fas for 48 h induced apoptosis with cells exhibiting typical apoptotic features including loss of cell contact , condensation of chromatin , and increased staining of the nuclear membrane .
This limitation may be resolved by in vivo delivery and expression of the antiangiogenic genes .
PURPOSE : To evaluate alterations in the retinal vasculature overlying pigment epithelial detachments ( PED ) in exudative age - related macular degeneration ( ARMD ) using indocyanine green and fluorescein angiography .
The inhibition of tumor growth and changes of survival were recorded and the microvessel density ( MVD ) was determined by histochemical stainingwith CD31 and CD105 antibodies .
The development and progression of colorectal cancer ( CRC ) is a multi - step process , and the Wnt pathways with its two molecular gladiators adenomatous polyposis coli ( APC ) and beta - catenin plays an important role in transforming a normal tissue into a malignant one .
Increased apoptosis of tumor cells and decreased angiogenesis in tumor tissue were also observed .
The expression of endothelial cell ( EC ) adhesion molecules involved in leukocyte - vessel wall interactions is suppressed in malignancies .
In contrast , bFGF mRNA was not altered by alinidine treatment .
The purpose of the present study was to measure the MVD and VEGF expression in a cohort of patients with betel - associated OSCC and to evaluate for possible clinicopathologic correlations .
The development of this technology has benefited from its application to both peripheral and coronary artery disease and results from both are reviewed here .
Rather , it has been hypothesized that , at low concentrations , MBDs produce more subtle effects on microtubule dynamics , block critical cell signaling pathways , and prevent the microtubules from properly interacting with transient subcellular assemblies ( focal adhesions and adherens junctions ) whose subsequent stabilization and / or maturation are required for cell motility and cell - cell interactions .
Recent studies on factors involved in tumor vascular development have identified new therapeutic targets for inhibiting tumor neovascularization and thus tumor progression .
Heparin - steroid conjugates : new angiogenesis inhibitors with antitumor activity in mice .
Tumor - free mice were used as controls .
The average IMVD had statistical difference in histological grading ( P less than 0 . 01 ) , and analysis by one to one , the average IMVD had statistical difference between high and median grading .
At later stages , branches of radial arteries penetrated the periphery forming an extensive mesh of capillaries on the concave surface .
( 1999 , Proc . Natl . Acad . Sci . USA 2645 - 2650 ) to inhibit endothelial cell proliferation and angiogenesis , both in vivo and in vitro , and to inhibit metastasis of a wide variety of tumors in vivo .
Lewis lung carcinomas in mice by up to 65 % .
In this study , the role of the proprotein convertase furin in PLAG1 proto - oncogene - induced salivary gland tumorigenesis was investigated .
These findings demonstrate that beclin 1 is a haplo - insufficient tumor - suppressor gene and provide genetic evidence that autophagy is a novel mechanism of cell - growth control and tumor suppression .
This increase was dependent on CD4 ( + ) T - cell activities ; however , it occurred independent of the induced eosinophilia associated with allergen provocation .
Gene expression signatures denoting WNT / TCF activation are associated with relapse to multiple organs in primary lung adenocarcinoma .
The cell autonomous function of p53 in melanocytes is not well described , however , the balance of the evidence suggests that p53 is an effective tumor suppressor and the myriad of mechanisms by which the p53 pathway may be dysregulated in tumors attests to it importance as a tumor suppressor .
Bevacizumab and irinotecan therapy in glioblastoma multiforme : a series of 13 cases .
Systematic proteomic analysis of human hepotacellular carcinoma cells reveals molecular pathways and networks involved in metastasis .
Melissoidesin G , a diterpenoid purified from Isodon melissoides , induces leukemic - cell apoptosis through induction of redox imbalance and exhibits synergy with other anticancer agents .
The binding activity of NF - kappaB to DNA was examined in nuclear extracts using Trans - AM NF - kappaB ELISA kit .
Depending on the cell type , expression of ANGPT1 and ANGPT2 was either activated or repressed in response to hypoxia or AdCA5 .
To determine whether changes in angiogenesis are responsible for the decrease in progesterone synthesis , we measured hemoglobin and CD34 levels in luteinized ovaries following injection of COX inhibitors and measured the relative frequency of cells positive for platelet - endothelial cell adhesion molecule as a specific marker for endothelial cells .
One such agent , 3 - bromopyruvate ( 3 - BrPA ) , a lactic acid analog , has been shown to inhibit both glycolytic and mitochondrial ATP production in rapidly growing cancers ( Ko et al . , Cancer Letts . , 173 , 83 - 91 , 2001 ) , leave normal cells alone , and eradicate advanced cancers ( 19 of 19 ) in a rodent model ( Ko et al . , Biochem . Biophys . Res . Commun . , 324 , 269 - 275 , 2004 ) .
In defined medium , both oncogenic TDM are constitutively autophosphorylated and inefficiently downregulated .
Plasminogen activator ( PA ) content of excised tumors was determined by SDS - PAGE , and major PA was found to be urokinase ( UK ) type .
Development of obesity is associated with extensive modifications in adipose tissue involving adipogenesis , angiogenesis and extracellular matrix proteolysis .
The results show that , without affecting in vitro human PMN viability and chemokine - receptor expression , Hyp ( as stable dicyclohexylammonium salt ) was able to inhibit in a dose - dependent manner their chemotaxis and chemoinvasion ( IC50 = 1 microM for both ) ; this effect was associated with a reduced expression of the adhesion molecule CD11b by formyl - Met - Leu - Phe - stimulated neutrophils and block of LE - triggered activation of the gelatinase matrix metalloproteinase - 9 .
However , when the same cells were exposed to step - wise increases of TGF - beta concentration in their culture medium , the development of TGF - beta resistance was accelerated .
We have described striking increases in VEGF protein in both neurons and glia after pilocarpine - induced status epilepticus in the brain .
Transformation of BHK hamster fibroblasts by an env - strain of Rous sarcoma virus ( RSV ) leads to the appearance at the cell surface of a virus - induced nonvirion antigen ( VCSA ) , specific for transformation , whose expression is controlled by the transforming src gene .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : An Affymetrix expression microarray was used to compare gene expression profiles between six pairs of TFs and normal fibroblasts from esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( ESCC ) .
Wnt signaling plays a critical role in regulating stem / progenitor cells in the mammary gland as well as other tissue compartments .
SMI496 , but not a control compound , interfered with angiogenesis in vivo by reversibly inhibiting sprouting from the axial vessels .
Highly metastatic tumors with beta - catenin stabilization are very similar to a subset of human melanomas .
The NBD peptide suppressed metastasis and tongue tumor growth in GSAS / N5 - inoculated mice , and was accompanied by the downregulation of the NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules in engrafted tongue tumors .
Our data show that inactivating mutations in CK1delta impair SV40 - induced cellular transformation in vitro and mouse mammary carcinogenesis in vivo .
Analysis of Runx2 - expressing lymphomas reveals a consistently low rate of apoptosis , in contrast to lymphomas of MYC mice which are often highly apoptotic .
A 24 - h exposure of cells to all - trans - RA was sufficient to cause a 30 % decrease in the collagenolytic activity , and this inhibitory effect was reversible .
Following intravenous administration of cationic lipid - DNA complexes ( lipoplexes ) into mice , transfection ( lipofection ) occurs predominantly in the lungs .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the effect of osteopontin silencing on the invasion and apoptosis of U251 cells .
One possibility is that the gross chromosomal alterations frequently observed in HCC DNA at the site of HBV integration may alter the expression of important nearby cellular genes .
In these transformants , mitogen depletion elicited an increase in the Rb level comparable to that in normal C2 cells ; wt SVLT , however , promoted the phosphorylation of a large part of the induced Rb .
These data thus indicate that the effects on hemostasis of the drugs examined can contribute only marginally to their antimetastatic action , since more pronounced effects on hemostasis have been shown to be required to significantly affect metastasis formation .
Ang1 inhibits the activation of Src by VEGF , the most upstream component of the pathway linking VEGF receptors to VE - cadherin internalization .
We situate invasion within microecosystems comprising neoplastic cells as well as host cells .
Mast cells and tumors .
LeTx also substantially inhibited the extracellular release of angioproliferative factors including vascular endothelial growth factor , interleukin - 8 , and basic fibroblast growth factor .
Here , we demonstrate in mice pleiotropic involvement of PTHrP in key steps of breast cancer - it influences the initiation and progression of primary tumors and metastases .
Fas - mediated cell death was examined in MCF - 10AT preneoplastic human breast epithelial cells .
Our previous studies mapped PEDF antiangiogenic and prosurvival activities to distinct epitopes .
Expression of osteoprotegerin and RANK ligand in breast cancer bone metastasis .
Angiogenesis inhibitors have been developed to interrupt the angiogenic process at the growth factor , receptor tyrosine kinase and intracellular kinase levels .
Pro / antioxidant status and AP - 1 transcription factor in murine skin following topical exposure to cumene hydroperoxide .
Frequent coffee consumption has been associated with a reduced risk of colorectal cancer in a number of case - control studies .
Here , we review the molecular basis of AID regulation , targeting , and initiation of CSR and SHM , as well as AID ' s role in generating chromosome translocations that contribute to lymphomagenesis .
The Wilms tumor suppressor gene WT1 induces G1 arrest and apoptosis in myeloblastic leukemia M1 cells .
Experimental Design : Human umbilical vein and dermal microvascular endothelial cells were infected with replication - deficient adenoviruses encoding survivin ( pAd - Survivin ) , green fluorescent protein ( pAd - GFP ) , or a phosphorylation - defective survivin Thr ( 34 ) - - > Ala ( pAd - T34A ) dominant negative mutant .
Suppressing PTTG expression by siRNA decreased cell motility in both PTTG - HA / EC9706 and KYSE150 cells .
CONCLUSIONS : These results provide support for the use of 2ME2 in combination with paclitaxel for the treatment of recurrent or advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
In order to study their relation to the metastatic profile and survival , we evaluated the association between pretreatment serum levels of S - 100beta , IL - 6 , IL - 10 and IL - 12 and metastatic site and survival in 50 patients with advanced melanoma who were to receive chemoimmunotherapy .
TS - 1 is a new , oral anticancer agent composed of two modulators , gimeracil ( CDHP ) and oteracil potassium ( Oxo ) are mixed with tegafur in a ratio of 1 : 0 . 4 : 1 .
Furthermore , the biological activity of FGF - BP is neutralized by monoclonal antibodies suggesting the potential for antibody - based therapeutic targeting .
( c ) 2010 American Cancer Society .
Combined mutations of p27 ( - / - ) and Men1 ( + / - ) , in contrast , did not exhibit noticeable synergistic stimulation of Rb kinase activity , cell proliferation , and tumor growth .
Hence , regulatory mechanisms of IL - 8 need to be investigated in whole tissue .
Multivariate analysis demonstrated that alpha - SMA and lymph node metastasis were identified as independent predictive factors of metastasis .
The E1B - 55kDa product has been shown to exhibit intrinsic transcriptional repression activity when localized to promoters , such as by fusion with the GAL4 DNA - binding domain , even in the absence of p53 .
METHODS : Human fat tissue fragments from surgery were placed in 96 - well plates , embedded in fibrin thrombin clot and overlaid with cell culture media containing 20 % fetal bovine serum .
IL - 17F deficient Apc ( Min / + ) mice showed a significant decrease in immune cell infiltration in the lamina propria .
Hence , the down - regulation of p21WAF1 , together with the alterations in Bax and cdk2 as observed in our studies , may define a novel mechanism by which ciprofloxacin inhibits tumor cell growth and induces apoptotic cell death .
The elevated serum TNF - alpha level observed following MTX treatment was depressed with L - Car .
Stimulation of tumor angiogenesis was connected with about 2 - fold increase in intracellular level of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) .
Matrigel plug neovascularization assay revealed that systemic angiogenic activity was elevated after primary tumor removal ( tumor intact group , 1 . 61 + / - 0 . 21 g / dL ; tumor removed group , 4 . 92 + / - 0 . 35 g / dL ) .
Moreover , we demonstrate that this inflammation - driven netrin - 1 up - regulation is causal for colorectal cancer development as interference with netrin - 1 autocrine loop in a mouse model for ulcerative colitis - associated colorectal cancer , while showing no effect on inflammation , inhibits colorectal cancer progression .
METHODS : Transplant tumor model was induced by subcutaneous inoculation of 2 x 10 ( 6 ) Lewis lung cancer ( LLC ) cells into the back of C57BL / 6 mice .
DLC1 protein level is elevated in more than 90 % of human breast tumors .
Impaired apoptosis of pulmonary endothelial cells is associated with intimal proliferation and irreversibility of pulmonary hypertension in congenital heart disease .
In contrast , NIH 3T3 cells are non - tumorigenic but are ras - responsive and become metastatic when transfected with ras .
Betulin ( 10 microg / mL ) induces apoptotic cell death , as evidenced by morphological characteristics such as membrane phosphatidylserine translocation , nuclear condensation / fragmentation , and apoptotic body formation .
Thus , genetic loss or inhibition of BRK1 is likely to be protective against tumor development due to proliferation and motility defects in affected cells .
We examined the expression of nm23 - H1 gene product in surgically resected 46 pairs of primary lung cancers and metastatic lymph nodes by immunohistochemistry .
Protein kinase activities in immune complexes of simian virus 40 large T - antigen and transformation - associated cellular p53 protein .
The apoptosis characteristics of MSCs were observed under conditions of ischemia and anoxia .
We examined the effect of distraction rate on blood vessel growth in intramembraneous ossification after vertical distraction osteogenesis in the human mandible .
The lack of expression correlates with a lack of detectable HLA - DR mRNA .
Together , we proposed that MOG alone or administered with other anticancer agents may provide a novel therapeutic strategy for leukemia .
Tip30 ( - / - ) mammary glands transplanted into wild - type mammary fat pads also display mammary trees with extensive ductal hyperplasia .
Diverse cell signaling events modulated by perlecan .
The induction of elevated p53 levels commenced at immediate - early times of the HCMV multiplication cycle ( 6 h postinfection ) and reached maximal levels by 24 h postinfection , before most of the HCMV DNA synthesis was initiated .
Cell invasion and apoptosis assays were also performed .
These fundamental discoveries led to additional research conducted by Napoleone Ferrara and his laboratory , confirming the cloning of VPF and renaming the protein vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
Phospholipase D ( PLD ) has been suggested to play an important role in a variety of cellular functions .
Mammographic patterns of microcalcifications depend on their physiopathological process ( necrosis , secretion ) , and the shape of clusters ( round , triangular ) typifies their anatomical site of origin ( lobular , ductal ) .
An evaluation of low molecular weight heparin and hyperbaric oxygen treatment in the prevention of intra - abdominal adhesions and wound healing .
This study investigates HIF - 1alpha , c - Myc , pAkt , and aerobic glycolysis in low - passage breast cancer cells under the assumption that these represent the in vivo condition better than established lines .
Both the erbA IRES and the erbA / myb IRES virus constructs transformed erythroid cells after infection of bone marrow or blastoderm cultures .
In the immunohistochemical analysis of EGFR and TGF - alpha and Ki67 index , a significant increase was observed in Ca ex - PA , especially with adenocarcinoma , compared with PA and sialadenitis .
Patient charts were reviewed for visual acuity of the treated eye before PDT and at 6 - and 12 - month follow - up examinations .
Natl .
A vascular permeability enhancement ( VPE ) assay was performed using guinea pigs to ascertain whether supernatant from cultures of Ve - and OMP - stimulated HGF enhance vascular permeability in vivo .
Addition of exogenous PAI - 1 , however , prevented HT1080 cell adhesion ( IC50 180 nM ) and promoted cell detachment from vitronectin .
It activated multicaspases , and increased the activities of caspase - 8 and caspase - 9 in both MG - 63 and SaOS - 2 cells .
Hyperforin ( Hyp ) , a polyphenol - derivative of St .
LRP - 1 also is implicated in integrin maturation .
In conclusion , the metastasis from TRP - 1 / Tag RPE tumors towards spleen and lymph nodes serves as potential tool to investigate biology and metastasis of tumors derived from the pigment epithelium .
The biological significance of this regulation of the two major pathways of energy generation by p53 remains to be seen .
The same result was obtained when the model contained ER status and ER - tamoxifen interaction .
This mutant enhanced the steady - level and transcriptional activity of ER .
It has a mitogenic activity for MEF cells , as demonstrated by an immediate induction of cell doubling time .
These models may have clinically relevant implications , particularly for the tailoring of therapeutic strategies targeting telomerase .
Manipulation of Rab7a GTPase activity associated with late endosomes using overexpression of wild - type or mutant proteins blocks activated VEGFR2 trafficking and degradation .
After IL - 1Ra treatment of GK rats in vivo , most selected genes implied in endothelium / OS / immune cells / fibrosis were significantly down - regulated .
In a multivariate analysis D2 - 40 + was the strongest predictor for ALNM with an odds ratio of 3 . 489 and a P - value of P = 0 . 0003 , followed only by T - stage and grading with odds ratios of 3 . 167 and 1 . 953 and P - values P = 0 . 0003 and P = 0 . 0352 .
Truncated galectin - 3 inhibits tumor growth and metastasis in orthotopic nude mouse model of human breast cancer .
The effects on hemostasis of DM - COOK , DTIC and ICRF - 159 have thus been examined in comparison with those of a purely cytotoxic agent , cyclophosphamide , in mice bearing i . m .
In vitro studies using monolayer cultures of human tumor cell lines have shown that 2 - DG selectively inhibits energy - dependent DNA repair and cellular recovery processes in cancer cells .
We have been investigating which coagulation factors simultaneously , or subsequently with platelet aggregation , participate in thrombus formation .
Silencing of ADAM - 9 in melanoma cells significantly reduced cell adhesion to fibroblasts .
Angiogenic activity in samples of patients from the control group was generally inhibitory due to PEDF , and inhibition was blocked by neutralizing antibodies to PEDF .
In all patients , a major and consistent induction of p53 target genes was seen .
TUNEL assay was used to assess apoptosis .
CONCLUSION : These results demonstrated that PTEN had played an important role in the cell proliferation , cell migration and invasion dependent on its phosphatase activity .
Syndecan - 1 expression in mammary epithelial tumor cells is E - cadherin - dependent .
In addition , expression of the constitutively active form of RhoA results in TSH - independent proliferation and anchorage - independent growth and induces tumors when inoculated in nude mice .
Mutating tp53 did not rescue the infertility phenotype in brca2 mutant males , suggesting that brca2 plays an essential role in zebrafish spermatogenesis .
As SET has been previously reported to be an inhibitor of phosphatase PP2A , the nuclear phosphatase activity was monitored in cells expressing activated Galpha ( 12 ) .
The mechanism of caffeine seems to involve the inhibition of the extracellular signal - regulated kinase 1 / 2 ( ERK1 / 2 ) , p38 , and Akt , leading to a marked decrease in adenosine - induced HIF - 1alpha accumulation , VEGF transcriptional activation , and VEGF and IL - 8 protein accumulation .
DNA microarray analysis allows for analysis of drug effects on multiple pathways linked to cancer and can suggest corresponding imaging tracers for further analysis as biomarkers of tumor response .
OBJECTIVE : The expansion of adipose tissue is linked to the development of its vasculature .
However , there is no report to show that DATS induced apoptosis in vitro and inhibited CT26 cancer cells in vivo on a murine allograft animal model .
Compared to controls , co - culture of MDA - MB - 231 cells with stromal or osteoblastic cells induced an increase in number of osteoclasts and TRAP activities .
This probably results in the slower rate of osteogenesis seen at the 1 mm / day distraction rate compared with the 0 . 5 mm / day distraction rate .
The long latency of prostate cancer development provides an opportunity to intervene with agents of known mechanisms at various stages of disease progression .
Abnormal beta - catenin expression was associated significantly with positive 14 - 3 - 3zeta expression .
The purpose of this study was to determine whether upregulation of PTEN gene by transfection wild - type PTEN gene to ovarian cancer cells can inhibit growth and migration and to explore the potential for PTEN gene therapy of ovarian cancers .
This encourages the performance of further studies to analyse the potential impact of 123I - IMT SPET on the therapeutic management of patients with brain tumours .
Less than 15 % of the glucose uptake was affected by the 1 , 2 , 3 - benzenetricarboxylate inhibition of the malate - citrate shuttle .
The aim of the present study was to clarify how expression of p53 protein participates in angiogenesis , and whether the coexpression of VEGF and p53 protein has a significance for angiogenesis and the clinicopathological features in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) .
PURPOSE : Pigment epithelial - derived factor ( PEDF ) is a potent angiogenesis inhibitor with multiple other functions , some of which enhance tumor growth .
Malate - citrate cycle during glycolysis and glutaminolysis in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells .
Transcriptional activity of HIF - 1 ( hypoxia - inducible factor - 1 ) has been reported to be up - regulated in solid tumors after ionizing radiation ; however , the molecular mechanism underlying the response remains to be elucidated .
In CX3CR1 - deficient mice , MCs accumulated subretinally with age and albino background and after laser impact preceding retinal degeneration .
Long - term peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) is limited by morphological changes of the peritoneal membrane .
Ultimately , the primary site was established on clinical and radiographic grounds in 71 cases ( 95 % ) .
This allowed coexpression of the two proteins and a comparison with the same vector containing either v - erbA or v - myb only .
NaF reduced the glucose consumption at early stage , possibly by inhibition of glycolysis , whereas cisplatin and etoposide reduced the glucose consumption at later stage , suggesting that early decline of glucose consumption is rather specific to NaF .
The relationship between expression of PTEN mRNA and protein and lymph node metastasis or LOH of microsatellites was discussed .
Loss of tumor suppressor proteins , which function as brakes on cell growth , migration , or cell survival , was recognized early on as an important mechanism for initiation and progression of melanoma .
However , the expression level of E - cadherin had an inverse relationship with both differentiation level of the tumor and lymphatic vessel invasion ( p = 0 . 0430 and 0 . 0320 , respectively ) .
Extracellular matrix as a bioactive material for soft tissue reconstruction .
The foreign body reaction was similar in both groups .
Effects of dietary folate on ulcerative colitis - associated colorectal carcinogenesis in the interleukin 2 - and beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin - deficient mice .
Moreover , in the presence of glucose , the malate - citrate cycle did not appear to play an important role in the glutaminolytic process .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : In this study all of the major members of the matrix metalloproteinase ( MMP - 1 , MMP - 2 , MMP - 3 , MMP - 7 , MMP - 9 , MMP - 13 , MT1 - MMP and MT2 - MMP ) / tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase ( TIMP - 1 , TIMP - 2 , and TIMP - 3 ) system have been investigated by immunohistochemistry in a series ( n = 90 ) of stage III ( Dukes ' C ) colorectal cancers .
METHODS AND RESULTS : Purified B - CLL cells from 15 patients were cultured either alone or with Sim at concentrations of 10 , 50 , and 100 microM .
MET expression is rarely detected in primary human melanoma but is frequently observed in metastatic disease .
We found that FGF - BP is dramatically upregulated during the initiation of colorectal and pancreatic adenocarcinoma .
In 1997 , the PTEN gene ( phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 ) was identified as a tumor suppressor gene on the long arm of chromosome 10 .
This has led to the therapeutic concept of prophylactic thyroidectomy in affected family members with the goal of removing the thyroid before the manifestation of carcinoma .
Although vascular casts must be interpreted with caution in light of the possibility of incomplete filling and other artifacts , they are a valuable tool in the study of ocular vasoproliferation .
CONCLUSIONS : Low sVAP - 1 levels are associated with poor prognosis in gastric cancer .
Administration of 317615 x 2HCl also increased the tumor growth delay produced by fractionated radiation therapy in the MX - 1 tumor .
The E2F - 1 protein is able to induce generalized apoptosis in gliomas independently of the p53 , p16 or Rb status .
This indicates that the strategy may be a useful therapeutic avenue for treatment of patients with malignant glioma .
The results showed that expression levels of both nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 mRNA varied in normal buccal mucosa , leukoplakia , adjacent nontumorous mucosa , submandibular gland , CBM and lymph nodes with or without metastasis .
This study examines the mechanism of HKa and D5 inhibition of two potent stimulators of endothelial cell migration , sphingosine 1 - phosphate ( S1P ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , that act through the P13 - kinase - Akt signaling pathway .
Very recently , sunitinib has been shown to be an active agent for the treatment of malignant pheochromocytomas .
Its Hsp90 inhibition results in multiple anti - tumor - specific effects , such as degradation of Hsp90 - client proteins involved in cell growth , survival , and specific transformation , inhibition of cancer cell growth , delay of cell cycle progression , induction of morphological and functional changes , and apoptosis .
Inhibition of PG synthesis was without effect upon desensitization , demonstrating that the effect was not agonist - induced .
Single cell transplants showed that a common precursor contributes to both the hemopoietic and endothelial lineages , thus demonstrating the presence of an adult hemangioblast .
Tie1 is an orphan tyrosine kinase receptor expressed almost exclusively in endothelial cells and is required for normal vascular development and maintenance .
Although DU145 prostate cancer cells are resistant to exogenously applied Fas agonist CH - 11 ( anti - Fas monoclonal antibody ) , Fas - resistance can be overcome using a FasL expressing adenovirus ( AdGFPFasL ( TET ) ) [ Hyer et al . , Molecular Therapy , 2000 ; 2 : 348 - 58 ( ref . 12 ) ] .
Mathematical models and empirical observations are used to define the adaptive advantage of aerobic glycolysis that would explain its remarkable prevalence in human cancers .
BACKGROUND : Abdominal surgery can lead to intra - abdominal adhesions with significant morbidity and mortality .
Angiogenesis inhibitors : current strategies and future prospects .
Impact of tumor cell VEGF expression on the in vivo efficacy of vandetanib ( ZACTIMA ; ZD6474 ) .
Sunitinib markedly induced apoptosis of PC12 cells in a dose - dependent and time - dependent manner .
Immunohistochemically stained sections of tumour were allocated a score for stain intensity and results correlated to : survival ; tumour stage ( T ) ; nodal stage ( N ) ; stage grouping ( I to IIIb ) , survival status and sex .
To determine the mechanisms whereby hematopoietic growth factors ( HGFs ) modulate apoptosis in human myeloid leukemic cells , we evaluated the roles of protein and mRNA synthesis for altering apoptosis in growth factor - stimulated vs . quiescent leukemic TF1 cells .
Treatment with the antiangiogenic reagent TNP - 470 suppressed postoperative progression of pulmonary metastasis .
Incidence of BRAF p . Val600Glu and p . Val600Lys mutations in a consecutive series of 183 metastatic melanoma patients from a high incidence region .
The activity of succinate dehydrogenase was inhibited by 70 % by 3 - BrPA treatment .
After 2 h incubation at 37 degrees C the drop in the ATP level was much lower .
miRNA - 126 , an EC - restricted miRNA , regulates vascular integrity and developmental angiogenesis .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the relationship among angiogenesis , spontaneous apoptosis and clinicopathological parameters in laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma ( LSCC ) .
Apoptosis was further measured by DNA fragmentation and microscope examination .
Activating mutations of the TSH - R gene have been detected in a group of differentiated carcinomas with high basal adenylyl cyclase activity , and in a few cases of hyperfunctioning thyroid carcinoma .
The presence of activating TSH - R mutations has also been demonstrated in differentiated thyroid carcinomas .
Moreover , there is a positive correlation between phosphoS727 - Stat3 expression and Gleason score in these prostate cancer tissues ( P = 0 . 05 ) .
Proliferative diabetic retinopathy is associated with a low level of the natural ocular anti - angiogenic agent pigment epithelium - derived factor ( PEDF ) in aqueous humor .
We also analysed the association of patients ' prognosis with clinical parameters and the histological classification of the carcinomatous component .
Thus , nuclear targeting of a specific 45 - kDa isoform of clusterin appeared to be an early and specific molecular signal triggering anoikis - death .
Platelet - derived growth factor ( PDGF ) and its receptors ( PDGFR ) play important roles in tumorigenesis through stimulating tumor growth and promoting angiogenesis via enhancing pericyte recruitment and vessel maturation .
Due to the low prevalence of hemangiopericytomas ( HPCs ) , data on the biophysiological characteristics of this tumor are rare .
This suggests that FOXO3a is a potential suppressor of carcinogenic damage in LAC .
However , the transfer of either the p16 or Rb gene to glioma cells results in cytostatic effect .
Our previous in vitro studies in a rat model indicated that insulin - like growth factor - I ( IGF - I ) is a potent angiogenic agent for fetal lung endothelial cells .
The angiopoietin / Tie2 system has been identified as the second vascular - specific receptor tyrosine kinase system controlling vessel assembly , maturation , and quiescence .
Neurotrophin p75 receptor ( p75NTR ) promotes endothelial cell apoptosis and inhibits angiogenesis : implications for diabetes - induced impaired neovascularization in ischemic limb muscles .
Furthermore , ubiquitination of cellular proteins was elevated in VHL - deficient cells , particularly after glucose deprivation , supporting a role for the VHL gene in ubiquitin - mediated proteolysis .
Antiangiogenic and antitumor effects of a protein kinase Cbeta inhibitor in human breast cancer and ovarian cancer xenografts .
This study validates a role for Met activation in melanoma tumor progression in the context of Cdkn2a deficiency .
Notably , ARD1 was critical for transcriptionally regulating a number of AR target genes that are involved in prostate tumorigenesis .
Additionally , bolus ( 3h ) doxorubicin incubation led to phosphorylation of p53 at serine 392 , induction of p21 , G2 arrest and increase of proapoptotic protein Bax .
In human colon carcinoma Colo205 and HT29 xenografts grown in human endosialin - transgenic mice , endosialin expression was largely confined to NG2 - expressing perivascular cells and not CD31 - positive endothelial cells .
These findings strongly support an enhanced role for this pathway in clear cell carcinomas by regulating angiogenesis and / or lymphangiogenesis .
In addition , the hypothesis predicts that early detection , which is designed to find more patients without involved lymph nodes , may not be a synergistic strategy with adjuvant chemotherapy , which works best with positive lymph node patients .
The beclin 1 autophagy gene is monoallelically deleted in 40 - 75 % of cases of human sporadic breast , ovarian , and prostate cancer .
The mice were treated by intratumoral injection of 2 x 10 ( 9 ) pfu Ad - mEndostatin .
This was associated with a approximately 60 % reduction in tumor - derived blood vessels by quantitative morphometry of CD31 - stained tumor areas , and appearance of endothelial cell apoptosis by internucleosomal DNA fragmentation in vivo .
Clusterin gene expression is potently induced in experimental models in which apoptosis is activated , such as rat prostate involution following castration .
HAH - cortisol at 10 ( - 4 ) M ( with respect to cortisol ) did not suppress the DNA synthesis of Lewis lung carcinoma cells .
Saline , thrombin solution , PPP , and PRP were applied to the created defects before closure .
Experiments with nu / nu mice , nonobese diabetic - SCID mice , or activated spc enriched in specific cell subpopulations demonstrated that CD4 ( + ) , CD8 ( + ) , and NK cells are all needed to mediate the full anti - angiogenetic effect of IL - 12 .
Brn - 3a , a member of the POU gene family ( so - called because of the similarity with the group of transcription factors Pit , Oct , and Unc ) , was found in neuronal cells engaged in the transcription activity of the p1 and p2 promoters of the most powerful antiapoptotic gene , namely , Bcl - 2 .
Thrombin decreases the ability of endothelial cells to attach to basement membrane proteins .
However , mechanism ( s ) by which VEGFR2 signaling and trafficking is coordinated are not clear .
No difference in relapse - free ( p = 0 . 26 ) or overall ( p = 0 . 63 ) survival was observed in patients stratified by angiogenin expression .
In this study , we investigated the effects of spironolactone on the prevention of corneal allograft rejection in a MHC class I / II mismatch rat corneal transplant model .
On day 18 , half of each group was treated with 5 x 10 ( 4 ) U gammaIFN , or saline intraperitoneally for 3 d .
However , there were no significant differences in serum IL - 8 concentrations between NHL patients and controls ( 159 . 2 + / - 40 . 4 vs . 99 . 6 + / - 107 . 1 pg / mL ; P = 0 . 099 ) .
High frequency of hypermethylation at the 14 - 3 - 3 sigma locus leads to gene silencing in breast cancer .
The molecular mechanisms regulating the gene expression under hypoxic conditions could increase the therapeutic window of tumor - specific delivery systems .
To induce capillary growth into the graft , we developed a method of transplanting bone marrow cells , which are primitive , strong enough to survive , and create blood cells , resulting in the inducement of capillary growth .
A better understanding of how p53 coordinates metabolic adaptation will facilitate the identification of novel therapeutic targets and will also illuminate the wider role of p53 in human biology .
Ex vivo , estradiol exposure increased the IL - 8 secretion of normal whole breast tissue in culture .
Targeted antibody - based therapy has been used successfully to treat cancers .
The findings suggest that elevated serum levels of S - 100beta , IL - 6 and IL - 10 reflect concurrent liver or bone metastases in melanoma .
These enzymes and their physiologic inhibitors , the tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases ( TIMPs ) , act in a coordinated manner to form an integrated system .
METHODS : Ninety diabetic patients with chronic total occlusion in at least one major epicardial coronary artery were enrolled in the study .
RESULTS : Our data showed that : tuberous sclerosis 2 ( TSC2 ) and phosphatase and tensin homolog ( PTEN ) were downregulated in most of the primary tumors , and their low expression was significantly associated with shorter disease - free and overall survival ; somatostatin receptor 2 ( SSTR2 ) was absent or very low in insulinomas compared with nonfunctioning tumors ; and expression of fibroblast growth factor 13 ( FGF13 ) gene was significantly associated with the occurrence of liver metastasis and shorter disease - free survival .
These data suggest that angiogenesis in operable non - small cell lung cancer is a major prognostic factor for survival and , among the parameters tested , is the only factor related to cancer cell migration to lymph nodes .
Synthetic vascular prostheses are foreign bodies , so that blood coagulation can occur on their luminal surfaces , causing graft occlusion very frequently in prostheses of small diameter .
The interval between primary surgery and the appearance of gastric cancer in the remnant stomach was significantly shorter in the RSCM group than in the RSCB group .
The effects of radiation on neovascularization in a rat model .
In conclusion , the decrease in c - Myc expression enhanced the VLB sensitivity , triggering earlier apoptosis through induction of the intrinsic pathway .
Emerging metabolic targets in cancer therapy .
Despite intensive investigations , the target genes of c - myb that are specifically involved in development of these myeloid lineage neoplasms are still unknown .
Thyrotropin receptor : a role for thyroid tumourigenesis ?
A characteristic of malignant cells is their capacity to invade their surrounding and to metastasize to distant organs .
The p75 receptor belongs to the tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) family of death receptors and has been suggested as a receptor that mediates apoptosis in neuronal and NB cells .
Tumor growth was determined and survival was recorded .
OBJECTIVE : To document that a polyclonal antiserum to calretinin , a 29 - kd calcium - binding protein , consistently decorates normal and tumor mesothelial cells in cytologic preparations .
The dual function of Id - 1 , inhibition of differentiation , and stimulation of cell proliferation , might be interdependent , as cell differentiation is generally coupled with the exit from the cell cycle .
Heart rate decreased by 32 % for 20 to 40 minutes after injection and was chronically reduced by 10 % , 14 % , and 18 . 5 % after 1 , 2 , and 3 weeks of treatment , respectively .
In conclusion , p53 and VEGF were not correlated with prognosis in patients with stage II and III SCC of the esophagus .
Rat - 1 cells which had been transformed with the activated Ha - ras - 1 gene from human EJ bladder carcinoma cells were fused with diploid embryonic rat fibroblasts .
Implications for a possible role of tumor cell / host TGF - beta interactions in human breast cancer progression .
Collectively , our results suggest that the loss of SEMA3 expression could be a hallmark of cancer progression .
RESULTS : SPARC expression was mainly in the stromal cells surrounding the colon cancer , and was significant difference in those tissues with the lymph node metastasis and differentiation degree of tumor .
RESULTS : Approximate 1 , 000 protein spots were detected on silver - stained gel by ImageMaster ( 977 + / - 113 spots in Hep3B , 1092 + / - 40 in MHCC97L , and 889 + / - 14 in MHCC97H ) .
These data provide the first demonstration of IGF - I / II expression in the human lung in early gestation and indicate that the IGF family of growth factors , acting through the IGF - IR , is required as a survival factor during normal human lung vascularization .
Furthermore , the expression of PECAM - 1 promoted filopodia formation and increased the protein expression levels of Cdc42 , a Rho GTPase that is known to promote the formation of filopodia .
Further tumour inhibition studies showed that STX243 was also active against MCF - 7 paclitaxel - resistant tumours .
The recent demonstration that VEGF signaling is modulated by the Notch signaling pathway , however , suggests that inhibiting Notch signaling may enhance regional neovascularization , by altering the responsiveness of local endothelial cells to angiogenic stimuli .
Detection of lymphovascular invasion in early breast cancer by D2 - 40 ( podoplanin ) : a clinically useful predictor for axillary lymph node metastases .
No CDC4 / FBXW7 mutations were found and loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 did not correlate with ploidy status .
Overexpression of JNK1 or p38 was sufficient to induce HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression .
T140 analogs are peptidic CXCR4 antagonists composed of 14 amino acid residues that were previously developed as anti - HIV agents having inhibitory activity against HIV - entry through its co - receptor , CXCR4 .
Also , a significant correlation existed between CTGF mRNA levels versus tumor grade , gender , and pathology .
The prototype system proved relatively easy to operate .
Overall , this work verified zebrafish as a model for the role of Brca2 in human disease and uncovered a novel function of Brca2 in vertebrate oocyte nuclear architecture .
Nrf2 heterodimerizes with small Maf protein to strongly activate transcription through the Maf recognition element ( MARE ) and Keap1 is an inhibitory regulator of Nrf2 .
CONCLUSIONS : Angiostatin and thalidomide inhibit tumor growth , angiogenesis , and induce apoptosis in this xenograft model of cervical cancer .
Several enzyme systems have been implicated in the metastatic process , but the metalloproteinases ( MPs ) appear to be the major group involved in most instances of neoplastic invasion .
There is accumulating evidence of a role for IGF - 1 in multiple vascular pathologies , including atherosclerosis , hypertension , restenosis , angiogenesis , and diabetic vascular disease .
The stromal cells in turn produce factors that nurture the tumor .
Cells which had been grown in medium containing 1 ng / ml TGF - beta developed colony - forming capacity in soft agar containing epidermal growth factor .
a pilot study .
Therefore , we next examined the effect of DMI on Ca3 / 7 cells , resistant to growth inhibition by the synthetic glucocorticoid fluocinolone acetonide ( FA ) .
Radiation significantly affected DMBA - associated vascular volume and permeability changes during carcinogenesis .
UV radiation has been shown to play a role in the initiation of human cutaneous melanoma , but its role in the development of malignant melanoma to the metastatic state is not very well defined .
The nature of these substrates was confirmed by proteolysis techniques .
The effect of wild - type or mutant survivin was investigated on capillary network stability , endothelial cell viability , and caspase activation in vitro and on kinetics of tumor growth and development of angiogenesis in a breast cancer xenograft model in vivo .
Tumor vessels are distinct from their normal counterparts morphologically as well as at a molecular level .
The patient received a prescription for 100 mg Ultralan to be taken daily for 3 days and then tapered in 3 day steps .
METHODOLOGY AND RESULTS : In this study , we demonstrate the molecular mechanism of M - CSF - induced VEGF production .
Engrafted MSCs survived , proliferated and differentiated into myocardium - like cells .
Role of osteopontin in adhesion , migration , cell survival and bone remodeling .
PLD activity has been shown to be significantly elevated in many tumours and transformed cells , suggesting the possibility that PLD might be involved in tumorigenesis .
c - erb B2 overexpression decreases the benefit of adjuvant tamoxifen in early - stage breast cancer without axillary lymph node metastases .
Randomised placebo controlled trials have shown that the phosphodiesterase III inhibitor cilostazol 100mg bid improves pain - free and maximum walking distance , as well as quality of life , in a range of patients with intermittent claudication in whom there is no evidence of tissue necrosis or rest pain .
CONCLUSION : The protein profile of metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines displayed obvious differences compared with non - metastatic liver cancer cell lines .
Verteporfin has a high affinity for choroidal neovascular membranes , typically found with exudative AMD , and upon photoactivation results in targeted microvascular damage and thrombus formation with resultant vessel occlusion .
Several regulatory and signaling molecules governing angiogenesis are of interest , including growth factors ( eg , vascular endothelial growth factor , platelet - derived growth factor , fibroblast growth factor , and epidermal growth factor ) , receptor tyrosine kinases , and transcription factors such as hypoxia inducible factor , as well as molecules involved in mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) and phosphoinositide 3 - kinase ( PI3K ) signaling .
The feasibility of such a strategy has now been established through the results of studies over the past decade , and a new discipline called therapeutic angiogenesis has emerged .
Furthermore , the formation of complexes containing KDR and NRP1 markedly increased 125I - VEGF165 binding to KDR .
NOS activities were measured by the L - citrulline assay in peritoneal biopsies from seven control subjects , eight uremic patients immediately before the onset of PD , and 13 uremic patients on short - term ( less than 18 mo , n = 6 ) or long - term ( greater than 18 mo , n = 7 ) PD .
Although in vivo studies have shown that such inhibition stems from complex interactions of immune cells and the production of IFN - gamma and other downstream angiostatic chemokines , the mechanisms involved are still poorly defined .
The role of syndecans in disease and wound healing .
Liver tissue spaces , investigated with multiple indicator dilution technique in liver perfusion studies , were unchanged at week 3 after tumor induction .
CONCLUSION : Down - regulated expression of PTEN gene is found in different stages of gastric carcinoma , and is closely correlated with LOH of its epigenetic microsatellites , which probably is its underlying molecular mechanisms .
We also established that doxorubicin treatment induces proliferation arrest and FOXO3a nuclear relocation in sensitive breast cancer cells .
Morphogenesis of embryonic CNS vessels .
Glucose metabolism was studied using an ECAT EXACT 47 positron emission tomography ( PET ) camera and fluorine - 18 fluorodeoxyglucose ( 18F - FDG ) ; 123I - IMT uptake was measured with the triple - headed single - photon emission tomography ( SPET ) camera , MULTISPECT 3 .
S . c . injection into nude mice with mixed - cell populations formed tumors that approximate the ratio of vGPCR - expressing and KSHV latent gene - expressing cells .
To examine the mechanisms by which insulin regulates VEGF expression , human retinal pigment epithelial ( RPE ) cells were exposed to insulin , and VEGF mRNA levels were quantified with RNase protection assays ( RPAs ) .
1 , 4 - phenylenebis ( methylene ) selenocyanate , but not selenomethionine , inhibits androgen receptor and Akt signaling in human prostate cancer cells .
Hence , we propose that the vector system , 5xHRE / SV40 / sTie2 , might be a useful tool for down - regulating tumor angiogenesis under hypoxic condition .
p21 delays tumor onset by preservation of chromosomal stability .
Successful FV closure was usually indicated immediately by presence of incarcerated ICG dye in the vessel adjacent to the burn site .
We investigated the roles of the prostaglandin synthases cyclooxygenase ( COX ) I and COX - II in angiogenesis and progesterone production in the newly formed CL , using inhibitors of the COX enzymes and the gonadotropin - induced pseudopregnant rat as a model .
These results suggest that Ve and OMP may be crucial heat - labile and protease - sensitive components of periodontal pathogens that enhance VEGF expression .
METHODOLOGY / PRINCIPAL FINDINGS : Examination of FOXO3a and phosphorylated - Akt ( P - Akt ) expression in breast cancer tissue microarrays showed nuclear FOXO3a was associated with lymph node positivity ( p = 0 . 052 ) , poor prognosis ( p = 0 . 014 ) , and P - Akt expression in invasive ductal carcinoma .
Few studies have investigated the association between p53 and VEGF expressions and prognosis in esophageal carcinoma .
The induction of elevated p53 levels was determined not to be due to virus - receptor interactions or HCMV late events .
A 71 - year - old woman was admitted to our hospital because of breathlessness .
Our study reveals a hitherto unrecognized link between p53 and IFN - alpha / beta in tumour suppression and antiviral immunity , which may have therapeutic implications .
We generated monoclonal antibodies that target FGF - BP protein and used them as a tool to evaluate frequency and pattern of FGF - BP expression during the malignant progression of pancreas and colorectal carcinoma in archival tissue samples .
In addition , when 200 micrograms U - 995 was injected i . p . into mice it suppressed sarcoma - 180 cell growth and B16 - F10 mouse melanoma cell metastasis in vivo .
Despite considerable efforts in understanding the cellular mechanisms contributing to pancreatic cancer , the prognosis of this malignant disease is still extremely poor .
These data suggest that increases in endothelial cell migration and plasminogen activator after angiotensin system inhibition are at least partially pp60c - src mediated .
Angiogenic factors , in particular vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and the angiopoietins , Ang - 1 and - 2 , have recently generated significant interest , especially in oncology .
Thus , SPARC , previously characterized as an inhibitor of platelet - derived growth factor binding to its receptor , also antagonizes smooth muscle cell proliferation mediated by monomeric collagen at the level of cyclin - dependent kinase - 2 activity .
It has been suggested that the immortalized phenotype is mediated by an extra cellular factor .
This contrasts with recent evidence suggesting that the Wave complex may function as an invasion suppressor in epithelial cancers .
In addition to giving a historical perspective on HTLV - 1 and other retrovirus research , this paper discusses the origin of HTLV - 1 ; the modes of transmission and global epidemiology of HTLV - 1 infection ; the genome of HTLV - 1 and the mechanism of HTLV - 1 - induced leukemogenesis ; the role of HTLV - 1 in other diseases , and recent breakthroughs in ATL therapy .
BACKGROUND : Patients with recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa ( RDEB ) have deficiencies of collagen type VII and have elevated levels of fibroblast collagenase , and a greatly increased risk of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma .
Tumor angiogenesis has been related to the initiation as well as progression toward more aggressive behavior of human tumors .
The finding of differential SSTR expression raises the potential for SSTR expression to be evaluated as a marker of response to somatostatin analogs .
Metastatic lesions were confirmed by immunohistochemistry .
3 - BrPA ( 3 - bromopyruvate ) is an alkylating agent with anti - tumoral activity on hepatocellular carcinoma .
Specimens of NSCLC and adjacent normal lung tissues were collected from 110 patients .
In the present study , we developed the first specific inhibitors of the pyruvate kinase isoenzyme type M2 and present evidence that these inhibitors moderately decelerate tumor cell proliferation .
Thus stage specific duality of function is the emerging paradigm for the role of TGFbeta1 in cancer .
Modulation of invasion within such systems is ascribed to balances between promoter and suppressor pathways .
METHODS : We analyzed the hypermethylation status and expression of the gene and 12q13 . 1 loss of heterozygosity in 31 PCNSLs .
In vivo , tumors derived from cell clones expressing high levels of VEGF displayed significantly enhanced angiogenesis and more aggressive growth .
Thus , pVHL appears to participate in the elimination of misprocessed proteins , such as those arising in the cell due to the unavailability of glucose or to other stresses .
The results demonstrated that levels of the c - jun mRNA and protein were unchanged in the revertants when compared to the transformed parental cells , and ectopic overexpression of c - jun failed to retransform the revertants .
This study highlights the advantages of arranging the BHRF1 miRNAs in clusters : it allows the synchronous and synergistic expression of genetic elements that cooperate to transform their target cells .
However , its widespread application has been hampered by difficulties in the large - scale production of the antiangiogenic proteins .
Correlation of lymphatic vessel density and vascular endothelial growth factor with nodal metastasis in papillary thyroid microcarcinoma .
Due to the importance of this pathway , it is clear that p53 disruptions may relate directly to a patient ' s prognosis .
In support of this hypothesis , other treatments which act through different mechanisms to interfere with protein processing ( i . e . , tunicamycin , brefeldin A , and azetidine ) were also found to be much more toxic for VHL - deficient cells .
The effects of 3 - mercaptopicolinic acid , a potent inhibitor of gluconeogenesis , was also examined on this model .
There is a highly significant correlation between the magnitude of changes in the number of cytochalasin B binding sites and the magnitude of changes in glucose uptake .
This compound inhibits cellular ATP production owing to its action on glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation ; however , the specific metabolic steps and mechanisms of 3 - BrPA action in human hepatocellular carcinomas , particularly its effects on mitochondrial energetics , are poorly understood .
However , sVAP - 1 expression has not been described for gastric cancer .
METHODS : Preoperative serum was collected from 107 gastric cancer patients and 33 normal controls .
Further analysis reveals that although LMP1 ( TRADD ) promotes cell growth , it does not prevent the eventual onset of senescence and the expression of tumor suppressor p16 ( Ink4a ) .
To investigate the significance of the C - terminal Abl actin - binding domain within Bcr / Abl p190 in the development of leukemia / lymphoma in vivo , mutant p190 DNA constructs were used to generate transgenic mice .
These studies also show their clinicalpathological features of the cancers with human Paraffin - embedded tumor tissue samples .
This study was aimed to investigate whether there is selective expression of these cytolytic markers in the putative NK - cell lymphomas and whether there is correlation with zonal tumor cell death in these tumors .
Additionally , the synergistic apoptotic effects of MOG with As2O3 were detected in HL - 60 and primary AML cells , but not in normal cells , suggesting the selective toxicity of their combination to the malignant cells .
In extracts of growing and stationary Swiss 3T3 cells , the total amount of protein kinase C activity was similar , indicating that growth state does not alter the level of enzyme in the cell .
Anti - endosialin antibodies may have value in identifying vasculature in malignant tissues .
However , the mechanism ( s ) by which ciprofloxacin elicits its biological effects on bladder cancer cells is not well documented .
The present study evaluated the effect of cumene hydroperoxide ( Cum - OOH ) on the induction of activator protein - 1 ( AP - 1 ) , which is linked to the expression of genes regulating cell proliferation , growth and transformation .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : Using a custom microarray , we analyzed 72 primary PETs , seven matched metastases , and 10 normal pancreatic samples .
RUNX1 DNA - binding mutations and RUNX1 - PRDM16 cryptic fusions in BCR - ABL + leukemias are frequently associated with secondary trisomy 21 and may contribute to clonal evolution and imatinib resistance .
There was positive correlation between PTEN mRNA expression and LOH of microsatellites in advanced gastric carcinomas .
The inhibition of platelet activation with prostaglandin E1 ( PGE ( 1 ) ) attenuated the invasive capacity of SKOV3 cells .
These results indicate that ING4 has an important role in brain tumour pathogenesis .
Cell proliferation in each sample was assessed by using the Ki - 67 proliferation marker .
Syndecans are a family of transmembrane heparan sulfate proteoglycans widely expressed in both developing and adult tissues .
Drug delivery to solid tumors is one of the most challenging aspects in cancer therapy .
Vascular grade was not related to histology , grade , proliferation index ( Ki67 ) , or EGFR or p53 expression .
Recent data suggest that activation of the integrin - associated protein CD47 promotes neuronal cell death .
The delayed application of corticosteroids after treatment with antimycotic drugs in cases of fungal keratitis is therefore not contraindicated and may be beneficial in patients .
Immunohistochemistry with 27 primary antibodies was performed in 100 formalin - fixed paraffin - embedded samples of invasive ductal carcinomas .
Thus , supplementation with L - Carnitine as an adjuvant therapy may be promising in alleviating the systemic side - effects of chemotherapeutics .
Western blots confirmed that LeTx treatment reduced the levels of phosphorylated extracellular signal - regulated kinase and p38 MAPK in vitro .
Forced expression of SEMA3F , but not SEMA3B in ovarian cancer cells , significantly inhibited endothelial cell tube formation .
Adenomatoid tumour of the liver .
We also demonstrated that Evi - 1 represses Smad - induced transcriptional activation by recruiting CtBP as a corepressor .
Apoptotic signaling by p75 was ligand - independent and only partly caspase - dependent .
Furthermore , a significant relationship between the expression of EphA2 and E - cadherin was observed .
Recent evidence suggests an association of these polymorphisms with an increased risk of cervical cancer , so we explored this relationship .
Met amplification and tumor progression in Cdkn2a - deficient melanocytes .
This work provides a demonstration that a combination of bioinformatics and comparative proteomics can help in finding out potential biomarkers associated with HCC metastasis on the level of pathways .
The central region that is sufficient for these activities includes the evolutionarily highly conserved region among human , mouse and chicken c - fos proteins .
OBJECTIVES : Bisphosphonates have been used successfully in the treatment of hypercalcemia and to reduce skeletal - related complications of bone metastases .
We found a ser122 - pro mutation in the NME2 gene of metastatic IV Cl 1 cells .
The role of platelet - derived endothelial cell growth factor / thymidine phosphorylase in tumor behavior .
Serum deprivation - induced apoptosis of BHK ( + TF ) cells was characterized by apoptotic blebs , nuclei with chromatin - condensed bodies , DNA degradation , and activation of caspase 3 .
Malignant melanoma is characterized by frequent metastasis , however , specific changes that regulate this process have not been clearly delineated .
While the study of angiogenesis as a phenomenon is still in an early phase , it has become possible , by using a combination of in vitro and in vivo techniques , to more thoroughly understand the initiation and control of capillary growth .
These data also suggest that folate deficiency may inhibit colorectal carcinogenesis in chronic UC .
CONCLUSIONS : This study has identified that the MMP / TIMP profile is an independent indicator of poor prognosis in colorectal cancer .
In parallel , we assessed several human melanoma biopsy samples and found again that AKT2 was the predominantly activated AKT in these human melanoma biopsies .
This phenomenon occurs at mast cell / tumor ratios which reflect the stoichiometry of host cell / tumor relationships in vivo .
Furthermore , GK rats were treated s . c twice daily with IL - 1Ra ( Kineret , Amgen , 100 mg / kg / day ) or saline , from 4 weeks of age onwards ( onset of diabetes ) .
Glucose deprivation - mediated sensitization to apoptosis was prevented in MCF - 7 cells overexpressing BCL - 2 .
HT - 29 human colorectal cancer xenograft model was used and tumour growth , microvessel density and VEGF quantification were performed in tumours after the administration of metronomic CPT - 11 , L - OHP , 5 - FU and their simultaneous combination .
Surprisingly , the level of leukocyte adhesion in ear venules of mice with a large flank tumor was also reduced significantly .
CONCLUSIONS : MDM2 expression quantified by image analysis was weakly associated with DM .
Although several methods have been used for measuring in vitro angiogenesis , a proper technique has not been developed for identifying in vivo NO - dependent angiogenesis .
The mechanism proposed is a stimulation of angiogenesis for distant dormant micrometastases .
Matrix metalloproteinases can collectively cleave all components of the extracellular matrix , with the endogenous tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 regulating their activity .
Histological analysis demonstrated the presence of blood vessels throughout the soft connective tissue in the distraction gap .
Our data identify what we believe to be new functions for PTHrP in several key steps of breast cancer and suggest that PTHrP may constitute a novel target for therapeutic intervention .
However , we demonstrate a novel and more complex role for PSMA in angiogenesis , where it is a principal component of a regulatory loop that is tightly modulating laminin - specific integrin signaling and GTPase - dependent , p21 - activated kinase 1 ( PAK - 1 ) activity .
NIH3T3 transfectant containing human K - ras oncogene shows enhanced metastatic activity after in vivo tumor growth or co - culture with fibroblasts .
Small interfering ribonucleic acid specific for MCT 1 and 2 reduced expression of these isoforms in U - 87 MG cells to barely detectable levels and reduced lactate efflux by 30 % individually and 85 % in combination , with a concomitant decrease of intracellular pH by 0 . 6 units ( a fourfold increase in intracellular H ( + ) ) .
The B ( 1 ) R appeared either as cytoplasmic dots or labeling on the apical cell membrane of the cells composing the epithelia with intestinal metaplasia ( 24 / 24 ; 100 % ) and carcinoma in situ ( 10 / 10 ; 100 % ) and in the epithelial cells of adenomas .
Our aim was to compare the angiogenesis associated with subcutaneous adipose tissue ( SAT ) and visceral adipose tissue ( VAT ) from the same obese patients in an in vivo model .
When plated in 2 % serum on dishes precoated with reconstituted basement membrane ( Matrigel ) , HUVECs infected with AdCMV . VEGF165 ( 20 pfu per cell ) differentiated into capillary - like structures .
To test this possibility , CD2 / F ( 1 ) mice were placed on synthetic diets containing 0 , 1 , or 2 % CLA for 6 weeks , before angiogenic challenge by s . c . injection with an angiogenic gel substrate ( Matrigel pellet assay ) .
The particular characteristics of these alterations , 80 % of which are missense mutations leading to functionally heterogeneous proteins , make p53 a unique gene in the class of tumor suppressor genes .
Compared with values measured at the edge of the ear and in the contralateral ear , leukocyte adhesion was found to be diminished significantly in vessels inside the ear tumor in both mouse models .
An increase in oligomycin - independent respiration was observed in HepG2 cells treated with 3 - BrPA only when incubated in glucose - supplemented medium , indicating that 3 - BrPA induces mitochondrial proton leakage as well as blocking the electron transport system .
However , how survivin couples to the cell death machinery has remained elusive , and the relevant cellular targets of survivin antagonists have not been completely elucidated .
Treatment with pharmacological inhibitors and small interfering RNAs reveal that induction and activation of Sp1 , HIF1alpha , and Stat3 facilitate their nuclear localization and binding to their specific motifs of the VEGF promoter and induce VEGF expression via two independent pathways , DCN / EGFR / phosphoinositide - 3 kinase / AKT and DCN / EGFR / ERK1 / 2 , respectively , in DCN synthesizing MCE cells .
TIMP3 may affect two independent downstream targets , vascular endothelial growth factor receptor and p38 MAPK .
Their relevance in cancer prevention .
Cyclin D1 / bcl - 1 cooperates with myc genes in the generation of B - cell lymphoma in transgenic mice .
Endothelial cells grown at normal pH suffer no ill effects from this angiostatin - mediated inhibition of ATP synthase , whereas endothelial cells grown at low , tumor - like extracellular pH cannot maintain a normal intracellular pH and die .
A similar result was observed in invasive carcinomas ( 0 / 12 ) .
Heparin was surface immobilized via covalent conjugation .
Appearance of tumorous phenotypes in goldfish erythrophores transfected with ras , src , and myc oncogenes and spontaneous differentiation of the transformants in vitro .
We will also discuss several patents regarding inhibitors of VEGF action in the present review .
HIFs are also expressed during normal development ; for example , HIF - 2alpha is specifically expressed and appears to be involved in the development of the murine sympathetic nervous system ( SNS ) .
Here , we demonstrate that HIF - 2alpha protein is selectively present in human fetal week 8 . 5 SNS paraganglia .
BAG - 1 is expressed ubiquitously in human cells as three major isoforms of 50 kDa ( BAG - 1L ) , 46 kDa ( BAG - 1M ) and 36 kDa ( BAG - 1S ) from a single mRNA .
The last 7 years have seen over seven times as many publications indexed by Medline dealing with pomegranate and Punica granatum than in all the years preceding them .
Thrombin increases the mRNA and protein levels of alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) integrin and serves as a ligand to this receptor .
Osteoclast - like cells and tartarate resistant acid phosphatase ( TRAP ) activities were then quantitated .
Using recombinant viruses that lack only one member of the cluster , we now show that all three BHRF1 miRNAs contribute to B - cell transformation .
All markers for stimulated wounds showed increased activity relative to non - stimulated control wounds between 7 and 14 days following injury , with peak activity at 14 days .
The region of the LTR identified here as being important in trans activation has recently been shown to be a critical determinant of the leukemogenicity and latency of Moloney murine leukemia virus .
Heat shock proteins ( HSPs ) have been defined as proteins induced by heat shock and other environmental and pathophysiologic stress .
In conclusion , FVIIa binding to TF provided protection against apoptosis induced by growth factor deprivation , primarily through activation of PI3 - kinase / Akt pathway , and to a lesser extent , p44 / 42 MAPK pathway .
Although there was no significant difference of the H . pylori positivity between the two groups , the rate for both groups was higher than reported in previous studies .
A univariate analysis of survival showed that vascular grade was the most significant prognostic factor ( P = 0 . 0004 ) , followed by N - stage ( P = 0 . 001 ) .
Here , we report a tumorigenic role of TLX in brain tumor initiation and progression .
Transfection with TSP - 1 and purified TSP - 1 added to NIH3T3 cells did not alter the protein levels of alpha - SMA and desmin but significantly inhibited matrix metalloprotease - 2 activity .
Statistical analysis was performed to explore the links between expression of the CCN genes and clinical and pathological parameters .
In particular , VEGF - C seems to play a key role in prostate cancer metastasis .
Endothelial cell migration is an essential step in vasculogenesis and angiogenesis , in which receptor tyrosine kinases play a pivotal role .
With a median follow - up of 8 . 4 months , the overall best response rate is 37 % ( 2 complete clinical response / complete clinical response unconfirmed and 9 partial response ) , with 22 % achieving stable disease .
The sequential activation of caspase - 9 and caspase - 3 / - 7 and the cleavage of poly ( ADP - ribose ) polymerase ( PARP ) were observed behind those mitochondrial events .
In conclusion , CXCR4 expression is associated with gastric cancer cell migration in vitro , and strong expression of CXCR4 by gastric cancer cells is significantly associated with lymphatic metastasis in patients with gastric cancer , suggesting that CXCR4 plays an important role during gastric cancer progression .
However , no published data are available concerning the biological and clinical significance of COUP - TFII expression in colorectal cancer .
The level of apoptosis correlated directly with the expression level of the receptor , indicating that p75 may activate the cell death program directly .
Finally , an immunohistochemistry method ( Hypoxyprobe ) demonstrated that tissue hypoxia was present in the spleen and BM .
RAF265 inhibited 2 - deoxy - 2 - [ ( 18 ) F ] fluoro - d - glucose ( FDG ) accumulation in cell culture at 28 hours in a dose - dependent manner .
The role of organ vascularization and lipoplex - serum initial contact in intravenous murine lipofection .
One of the most common signatures of highly malignant tumors is their capacity to metabolize more glucose to lactic acid than their tissues of origin .
Investigating the causes of low birth weight in contrasting ovine paradigms .
We have modelled multiple stages of malignant transformation of human endothelial cells ( ECs ) by overexpressing the catalytic subunit of human telomerase ( hTERT ) , together with SV40 T antigen ( SV40T ) and oncogenic N - ras .
In accord with our hypothesis , in a variety of different FH - deficient tissues , including a novel murine model of Fh1 - deficient smooth muscle , we show a striking and progressive upregulation of a tumorigenic metabolic profile , as manifested by increased PKM2 and LDHA protein .
In vivo , LPA stimulates tumor metastasis in an orthotopic ovarian tumor model , which can be inhibited by a PI3K inhibitor , LY294002 .
The end result in individuals surviving burn shock is immunosuppression , with increased susceptibility to potentially fatal systemic burn wound or pulmonary sepsis .
Group 1 animals had the left buccal pouches painted three times weekly with 7 , 12 - dimethylbenz ( a ) anthracene ( DMBA ) for 14 weeks .
The coagulative parameters including the prothrombin time , activated partial thromboplastin time , and fibrinogen levels were collected and studied retrospectively .
Sequence analysis of CDC4 / FBXW7 was carried out on gastric carcinoma cell lines and xenografts .
However , mice treated with t - butanol , an alcohol not metabolized by alcohol dehydrogenase , exhibited no change in wound vascularity .
These findings suggest a novel mechanism of retrovirus - induced activation of cellular gene expression , potentially contributing to leukemogenesis .
In spleen , tyrosinase , TRP - 1 and SV40 Tag were expressed and tyrosinase was enzymatically active .
We demonstrate that a proteoglycan decorin ( DCN ) up - regulates the vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression with activation of VEGF regulating transcription factors Sp1 , hypoxia - inducible factor 1alpha ( HIF1alpha ) , and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 ( Stat3 ) via epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) , mitogen - activated protein kinase extracellular signal - regulated kinase 1 / 2 ( ERK1 / 2 ) , and protein kinase B ( AKT ) pathways in DCN transfected mouse cerebral endothelial ( MCE ) cells .
These findings suggest that nm23 - H1 encodes for suppression of colon carcinoma metastasis .
Antiangiogenesis therapy might have a role in reducing regional metastasis .
We also demonstrate direct interaction of Egr - 1 with Id - 1 promoter in vitro and in cell culture .
In the present study , we investigated in vivo the regulation of leukocyte - vessel wall interactions by the presence of a tumor .
METHODS : The expression of five facilitative glucose transporters , Glut - 1 ( erythrocyte type ) , Glut - 2 ( liver type ) , Glut - 3 ( brain type ) , Glut - 4 ( muscle / fat type ) , and Glut - 5 ( small intestine type ) , was studied by immunohistochemistry of paraffin sections from 12 primary human breast cancers and 8 lymph node metastases from 2 patients .
BACKGROUND : Mesenchymal stem cells ( MSCs ) transplantation is of therapeutic potential after ischemic injury in both experimental and clinical studies .
Additional grafted rats treated with spironolactone ( n = 6 ) or PBS ( n = 8 ) were sacrificed on day 12 for quantitative RT - PCR analysis for mechanistic studies .
Immunohistochemical study with specific antisera was done .
The selected peptide was tested for the antitumor activity against mildly aggressive xenografted prostate carcinoma and highly aggressive renal cell carcinoma .
Although PTHrP is frequently expressed by breast tumors and other solid cancers , its effects on tumor progression are unclear .
Shear stress - induced transcriptional suppression of Tie1 is mediated by a negative shear stress response element , localized in a region of 250 bp within the promoter .
In the present study we examined the possibility that the revertant phenotype resulted from mutations that altered the expression or activities of the c - jun or junB proto - oncogenes .
Members of the src and ras oncogene families supplant the epidermal growth factor requirement of BALB / MK - 2 keratinocytes and induce distinct alterations in their terminal differentiation program .
As a consequence , these tumors generate more lactate , which is effluxed from cells by monocarboxylate transporters ( MCTs ) .
In murine models , the latter produces a hyperproliferative response to G - CSF , confers resistance to apoptosis , and enhances cell survival .
The median time to disease progression while on treatment was 24 weeks .
However , the regulation of adipose tissue angiogenesis in humans has not been extensively studied .
In patients who transform to overt MDS or AML , hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is the only chance for cure .
The myoadipose flap : a new composite .
A marked coronary angiogenesis is known to occur with chronic bradycardia .
On the 8th day of serum - free culturing , only the higher molecular weight protein - band of about 45 kDa was clearly induced and accumulated in detached cells and apoptotic bodies in which PARP was activated .
The acquisition of the metastatic phenotype induced by UV - B could not be attributed to abnormalities in the p53 or MTS - 1 ( p16INK4 ) genes .
This usually involves screening of potential anti - angiogenic compounds on endothelial cells .
The data show that different protein expression patterns exist between primary squamous cell lung carcinomas with and without lymph node involvement and within carcinomas with lymph node involvement .
KISS1 hypermethylation was identified in bladder cancer , providing a potential mechanistic explanation ( epigenetic silencing ) for the observed loss of KISS1 in uroepithelial malignancies .
The greatest potential for angiogenesis inhibitors may lie in their ability to combine safely with chemotherapy and radiotherapy .
To the best of our knowledge , this is the first report to show that UV - B can increase the aggressiveness of human cutaneous melanoma for growth and metastasis .
Neoplastic transformation of ciliary body epithelium is associated with loss of opticin expression .
We hypothesized that Erbb2 activation contributes to UV - induced skin tumorigenesis by suppressing cell cycle arrest .
However , high expression of WT1 correlates with poor prognosis in acute leukemia .
Endothelial cell migration and vascular endothelial growth factor expression are the result of loss of breast tissue polarity .
Deletion of Tip30 leads to rapid immortalization of murine mammary epithelial cells and ductal hyperplasia in the mammary gland .
Clinical results induced by autologous bone marrow stem cells or angiogenic growth / differentiation factors in end - stage patients with PAD are summarized .
In agreement , induced overexpression of VEGF - C in LAPC - 9 enhanced tumor lymphangiogenesis leading to the development of metastatic lesions .
This study suggests that angiogenin may be important in breast cancer progression and that , through its relationship with ER , it may be a target for tamoxifen .
The median overall survival was 27 weeks .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : We assessed response , toxicity , and biomarkers of angiogenesis to low - dose cyclophosphamide ( 50 mg p . o . o . d . ) and high - dose celecoxib ( 400 mg p . o . b . i . d . ) in adult patients with relapsed or refractory aggressive non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma in a multicenter phase II prospective study .
VEGF165 expressed by a replication - deficient recombinant adenovirus vector induces angiogenesis in vivo .
Early administration of prednisolone ( day 3 , low and high dose ) resulted in the recultivation of significantly more C . albicans .
All patients received a total dose of 16 Gy in 2 - Gy daily fractions with 5 - 6 MeV photons based on computerized treatment planning in individual head mask fixation .
Both HKa and D5 decrease the speed of BPAE cell migration and alter the morphology in live , time - lapse microscopy after stimulation with S1P or VEGF .
The inhibition of migration by HKa is reversed by antibodies to urokinase - type plasminogen activator receptor .
The decrease in ATP level might be explained through the interaction of the amine oxide with the cell membrane integrity .
Finally , inhibition of Id - 1 expression results in G ( 2 ) / M accumulation of FGF - 2 - treated cells and delayed cell death .
Simian virus 40 large T antigen ( SV40 Tag ) was introduced into a normal human first trimester invasive EVT cell line , HTR8 , established in our laboratory .
An increase of atrophy over the Retinal Pigment Epithelium ( RPE ) was observed in another patient .
Human pituitary tumor transforming gene ( PTTG ) overexpression correlates with metastasis in multiple tumors , and yet its molecular mechanisms of action remain elusive .
Neuroblastoma is derived from SNS precursors .
CONCLUSIONS : Survivin functions as a novel upstream regulator of mitochondrial - dependent apoptosis , and molecular targeting of this pathway results in anticancer activity via a dual mechanism of induction of tumor cell apoptosis and suppression of angiogenesis .
We examined the status and regulation of semaphorins and their receptors in human ovarian cancer cells .
Electrophoretic mobility shift assays showed that the oligonucleotides containing the WT1 motifs could bind recombinant WT1 proteins .
Dietary CLA decreased serum levels of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and whole mammary gland levels of VEGF and its receptor Flk - 1 .
Finally , in human umbilical cord blood cells , we show that endothelial precursors make up only approximately 1 in 10 ( 7 ) mononuclear cells but are highly enriched in the CD133 + cell population .
The simian virus 40 ( SV40 ) large tumor ( T ) antigen is sufficient to transform cells in cultures and induce tumors in experimental animals .
As predicted , these MEFs upregulated Hif - 1alpha and HIF target genes directly as a result of FH deficiency .
Many studies on carcinogenesis carried out early in the last century are united on the consensus that cancer is a genetic disease .
Adaptor protein Crk is required for ephrin - B1 - induced membrane ruffling and focal complex assembly of human aortic endothelial cells .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : We used rAAV2 / 5 to deliver vasostatin intratumorally or systemically in different mouse lung tumor models - - subcutaneous , orthotopic xenograft , and spontaneous metastasis lung tumor models .
A lesion was considered subfoveal if it extended underneath the geometric center of the FAZ .
Intrauterine growth restriction ( IUGR ) still accounts for a large incidence of infant mortality and morbidity worldwide .
RESULTS : The final visual acuity of the study patients , after a median follow - up of 31 months , improved by greater than or = 1 Snellen lines in 8 patients ( 13 % ) , deteriorated in 20 ( 32 % ) , and remained stable in 34 ( 55 % ) .
OBJECTIVE : Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 ( VEGFR2 ) is a receptor tyrosine kinase that regulates vascular physiology .
Although AID activity is focused at Immunoglobulin ( Ig ) gene loci , it also targets a wide array of non - Ig genes including oncogenes associated with lymphomas .
Preliminary data suggest that TnI may be competing with bFGF for interaction with the bFGF receptor on responsive cells .
Furthermore , infected cells evince a marked upregulation of the EBNA genes .
Our results reveal an aspect of the precise molecular mechanisms of some breast cancers , in which full invasiveness is not acquired just by intracellular alterations of cancer cells , but extracellular factors from microenvironments may also be necessary .
p53 hot - spot mutants increase tumor vascularization via ROS - mediated activation of the HIF1 / VEGF - A pathway .
Solid tumors are frequently necrotic and hypoxic due to poor vascularization .
Administration of 317615 x 2HCl along with carboplatin to animals bearing the SKOV - 3 tumor produced a 1 . 8 - fold increase in lifespan compared with carboplatin alone .
Genetic instability is a hallmark of human cancers .
One example of particular interest is the Keap1 - Nrf2 system since , according to recent studies , it has turned out to be ambivalent .
Cooperative transformation by c - MYC and OSM required PI3K and AKT signaling , showing the importance of multiple signaling pathways downstream of the OSM receptor in defining the cellular response to cytokines .
Enhanced endothelial cell growth and reduced platelet adhesion were observed on the perlecan coated grafts when compared to uncoated controls implanted in the same sheep ( n = 5 ) .
Our group seeks to determine the basic mechanisms underlying ES wound therapy , an area where understanding is currently limited .
They establish cyclin D1 as a proto - oncogene whose activity appears to depend on a specific cell type as well as on a specific cooperating partner and link disturbances in the regulation of cell cycle progression to the development of human malignancies .
The 20 - HETE agonist markedly increased superoxide formation as reflected by an increase in dihydroethidium staining of EC , and this increase was inhibited by PEG - SOD but not by apocynin .
METHODS : From June 2004 to December 2007 , 132 patients received diagnosis and treatment in our hospital .
The apoptotic cascade was studied by immunoblot analysis of caspases following Sim treatment .
One year after radiotherapy final median VA was 20 / 400 in both groups .
Reverse transcription - polymerase chain reaction and Western blot assays were used to investigate expression of Bcl - 2 and Bax .
An angiostatin - mimetic activity has recently been observed using a polyclonal antibody against the beta catalytic subunit of ATP synthase .
To elucidate the biological role of the endogenous angiogenesis inhibitor thrombospondin - 2 ( TSP - 2 ) during multistep carcinogenesis , we subjected TSP - 2 - deficient and wild - type mice to a chemical skin carcinogenesis regimen .
The pharmacokinetics of STX243 were examined at two different doses using adult female rats .
A reduction in the expression of collagen XII might have profound effects on the stability of the extracellular matrix of transformed cells .
DNA methylation and expression of HLA - DR alpha .
Since Akt phosphorylates Chk1 - Ser ( 280 ) , the effect of Erbb2 on phosphatidyl inositol - 3 - kinase ( PI3K ) / Akt signaling during UV - induced cell cycle arrest was determined .
Using vitamin K in perioperation management did not reduce intraoperative blood loss .
In a third approach , cancer cells are induced to die by both apoptotic and necrotic events .
Methotrexate ( MTX ) , a folic acid antagonist widely used for the treatment of a variety of tumors and inflammatory diseases , affects normal tissues that have a high rate of proliferation , including the hematopoietic cells of the bone marrow and the gastrointestinal mucosal cells .
The objective of this study is to investigate the effects of aspirin and nimesulide on cell proliferation , apoptosis and its potential mechanisms in EC9706 and EC109 esophageal squamous carcinoma cells .
The c - myc oncogene encodes for a transcriptional factor involved in many cellular processes such as proliferation , differentiation and apoptosis .
