Inhibition of the UV - induced activation of Erbb2 also resulted in milder epidermal hyperplasia , S - phase accumulation , and decreased levels of the cell cycle regulator Cdc25a , suggesting altered cell cycle regulation on inhibition of Erbb2 .
RESULTS : The bone grafts were found revascularization in 3 days after surgery in the test group , whereas at 2 weeks in the control group .
Pharmacological inhibition of the proteasome prevents the degradation of Hck correlating with an increase in the phosphotyrosine levels within the cells .
Extensive regulation contributes to normal growth control , abrogation of regulatory controls contributes to uncontrolled growth as seen with erb B transformation and EGF receptor gene amplification in human tumors .
In contrast , administration of the NAD ( P ) H oxidase inhibitor apocynin had no effect to the proliferative response to 20 - HETE .
The results demonstrate the possibility to generate monospecific divalent and tetravalent antibodies , immunocytokines , and dual specificity tetravalent antibodies .
Angiogenesis has become an attractive target for drug therapy because of its key role in tumor growth .
One theoretical possibility is that mast cells may prepare the matrix , perhaps by slow release of heparin , so that capillary sprouts can more easily move through it toward their angiogenic target .
The time courses of changes in MMP - 1 , bone growth factors ( TGF - beta1 and bFGF ) , and hGH , respectively , correlated significantly during the lengthening phase , indicating common regulatory pathways for these factors in distraction osteogenesis .
In contrast , the conditioned media induce elevated levels of proapoptotic mediators in the Chang hepatocytes .
p53 up - regulation and p53 - mediated proliferation arrest and apoptosis were substantiated using immunohistochemistry , with activation of both the intrinsic and the extrinsic apoptotic pathways .
Furthermore , Trib1 by itself is a novel myeloid oncogene , enhancing phosphorylation of ERK , resulting in inhibition of apoptosis .
Furthermore , treatment of immunocompetent mice in the spontaneous lung metastases model with rAAV2 / 5 - VAS after primary tumor excision prolonged their median survival from 21 to 51 . 5 days .
The incidence of high - grade lesions ( high - grade dysplasia / carcinoma in situ and invasive adenocarcinoma ) in the folate - supplemented group was 46 % lower than that in the control group ( 35 . 3 % versus 65 . 1 % , P = 0 . 009 ) .
Reversal of the malignant phenotype of ovarian cancer A2780 cells through transfection with wild - type PTEN gene .
Similar results have been obtained with tumor cell lines and experimental animal models .
The p53 tumor suppressor plays pivotal role in the organism by supervising strict compliance of individual cells to needs of the whole organisms .
Therefore , genetic instability plays an important role in inflammation - associated cancers .
The increased migration ability and the invasive ability into tumor cluster of TGF - beta - treated NIH3T3 cells were dose dependently inhibited by TSP - 1 .
We report one case of advanced gastric cancer with lung and lymph node metastases that completely responded to TS - 1 .
This finding may be explained by a stimulatory effect of GM - CSF and IL - 3 on ara - C phosphorylating enzymes and a more rapid incorporation of ara - CTP into the DNA of leukemic blasts .
[ Tumor metastasis and the fibrinolytic system ] .
In ILP , reduced tumour growth was observed when L - NAME was used alone .
METHODS : Sixty - two patients ( 62 eyes ) with PM underwent PDT according to the guidelines of the Verteporfin in Photodynamic Therapy Study .
2 - methoxyestradiol inhibits hypoxia - inducible factor 1alpha , tumor growth , and angiogenesis and augments paclitaxel efficacy in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
Interestingly , we found that K5CDK4 mice show a decreased number of pituitary stem cells , even though CDK4 is not expressed in the stem cells but in transit - amplifying ( TA ) - like cells .
In each experimental situation , the casts provided a valuable three dimensional representation of the newly formed blood vessels and permitted subclassification of the vessels within normal and proliferating vascular networks .
Long - term peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) is limited by morphological changes of the peritoneal membrane .
These RNAs were not detected by Northern ( RNA ) hybridization in productively infected chicken embryo fibroblasts 48 h postinfection ; however , they were apparent 140 h postinfection .
This chapter describes intravital microscopy as a new imaging technique for detecting NO - dependent angiogenesis in an animal model .
Identification of a small region of the v - fos gene product that is sufficient for transforming potential and growth - stimulating activity .
Recently , considerable attentions have been devoted to the physiological roles of angiopoietin ( Ang ) - 1 and - 2 as regulatory factors of VEGF .
We have found that sanguinarine alters the morphology and reduces the viability of MG - 63 and SaOS - 2 human osteosarcoma cell lines in concentration - and time - dependent manner .
No significant correlation could be detected with regard to TNM - stage , grading or survival .
VEGF and COL - IV levels were found to be significantly higher for pattern A ( 110 mus pulse width ) compared to pattern B ( 5 mus pulse width ) at 14 days , implying that pattern A may be more effective at promoting angiogenesis .
The Hedgehog intercellular signaling pathway regulates cell proliferation and differentiation .
PURPOSE : The purpose of this study was to evaluate the applications of magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) , and in particular , dynamic contrast - enhanced MRI ( DCE - MRI ) , in the assessment of tumour microvasculature by means of animal tumour models evaluated before and after antiangiogenic treatment .
These findings advance our understanding of the functions of N - myc in neuroblastoma cells .
Although it is well known that Wnt signaling is frequently dysregulated in melanoma , the functional implications of this observation are unclear .
METHODS : Receptor proteins were visualized by immunohistochemistry on 5 - mum sections of paraffin - embedded tissue .
Our data show that inactivating mutations in CK1delta impair SV40 - induced cellular transformation in vitro and mouse mammary carcinogenesis in vivo .
The semaphorin 7A receptor Plexin C1 is lost during melanoma metastasis .
The heart functions ( left ventricle ejection fraction ( LVEF ) , left ventricle fractional shortening ( LVFS ) ) were improved more significantly in the old donor - derived MSCs group than in the control group and the heart function in the young donor - derived MSCs group further improved ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
The data indicate that endosialin is strongly expressed by pericytes during periods of active angiogenesis during embryonic and tumor development .
Because poor skin wound healing associated with diabetes is thought to be partly a result from impaired angiogenesis , treatments that improve angiogenesis could have important clinical applications .
Chondrocyte - DegraPol constructs were cultured for 1 month with the medium before glycosaminoglycan assessment and histology .
These data indicate that endogenous IL - 1 is a mediator of ischaemic and excitotoxic brain damage , and that inhibitors of IL - 1 action may be of therapeutic value in the treatment of acute or chronic neuronal death .
The region of the LTR identified here as being important in trans activation has recently been shown to be a critical determinant of the leukemogenicity and latency of Moloney murine leukemia virus .
RNA and DNA viruses can be transforming and tumourigenic agents .
Here we investigated this possibility by examining the role of FOXO3a in the cellular response to nicotine - derived nitrosaminoketone ( NNK ) , a lung carcinogen implicated as a cause of human LAC .
Restoration occurred in the presence of a protein synthesis inhibitor but not after a transcriptional block , indicating that c - myc is a direct , transcriptionally regulated target of c - Myb .
Angiogenesis is a key event in the progression of malignant gliomas .
Latency was markedly increased and occurrence decreased in the p190 del C lines as compared with nonmutated p190 BCR / ABL transgenics .
The aim of this study was to compare angiogenesis parameters in low nuclear grade ( n = 87 ) vs high nuclear grade CC - RCC ( n = 63 ) .
Brn - 3a , a neuronal transcription factor of the POU gene family : indications for its involvement in cancer and angiogenesis .
VDAs specifically target and destroy well - established tumor vessels with ischemia and destruction of large masses with central hemorrhagic necrosis and survival of a thin peripheral tumor layer .
Thus , c - myc induction is a resistance factor and our findings suggest that tumors carrying low levels of c - Myc protein could be more responsive to vinca alkaloids treatment .
It is now known that specific types of human papillomaviruses ( HPV ) are the principal etiologic agents for both cervical cancer and its precursors .
Anarchic angiogenesis with large , moniliform , tortuous vessels was seen in severe dysplasias and carcinomas .
As chicken embryo fibroblasts are devoid of EGF receptors , their activity is not potentiated by EGF .
Fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 - positive fibroblasts provide a suitable microenvironment for tumor development and progression in esophageal carcinoma .
This resulted in beta tumor cell metastases in distant organs and local lymph nodes , demonstrating a role for pericytes in limiting tumor cell metastasis .
Low concentrations of SN - 38 , but not 5 - FU and L - OHP , preferentially inhibited endothelial cell proliferation .
After 48 h in culture , DR antigen expression was substantially increased , but no significant changes were observed in methylation of the DR alpha locus or in the amount of DR mRNA which was present .
In addition , expression of the constitutively active form of RhoA results in TSH - independent proliferation and anchorage - independent growth and induces tumors when inoculated in nude mice .
BACKGROUND : CDC4 / FBXW7 , encoding a ubiquitin ligase , maps to 4q32 and has been implicated as a tumor suppressor gene and therapeutic target in many tumor types .
Angiopoietin - 1 prevents VEGF - induced endothelial permeability by sequestering Src through mDia .
This cellular interaction was tumor - specific , although isolated granules could enhance fibroblast proliferation .
Scanning electron microscopy of vascular casts in experimental ocular vasoproliferation .
Malignant cells often display defects in autophagy , an evolutionarily conserved pathway for degrading long - lived proteins and cytoplasmic organelles .
The second most prevalent urological malignancy in middle aged and elderly men is bladder cancer , with 90 % of the cases being transitional cell carcinomas .
Galpha ( 12 ) , the alpha - subunit of the G12 family of heterotrimeric G proteins is involved in the regulation of cell proliferation and neoplastic transformation .
Crucial genetic events underlying the initiation and progression of colorectal and pancreatic adenocarcinoma with a particular focus on the modulation of angiogenesis and antiangiogenic therapies are discussed .
In contrast , at least some of these sites were not methylated in DNA from the B - cells expressing high levels of DR alpha mRNA .
TEL , a putative tumor suppressor , modulates cell growth and cell morphology of ras - transformed cells while repressing the transcription of stromelysin - 1 .
HYPOTHESIS : This study was designed to compare coronary collateral circulation ( CCC ) in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy ( PDR ) with that in patients without DR .
By using mass spectrometric analysis , we identified that PTTG up - regulated S100A4 and galectin - 1 secretion and down - regulated tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 2 secretion to the culture media .
In the current report , we tested the sensitivity of the c - myc - overexpressing cells ( Rat 6 / c - myc ) to two additional chemicals : 5 - azacytidine and MnSO4 .
By using immunohistochemistry , Western blot , and real - time PCR the expression patterns of TSP - 1 , TSP - 2 , CD36 , CD47 , MMP - 2 , and MMP - 9 were investigated in normal rat prostate tissue and five malignant Dunning sublines tissue .
Estimation of lectin binding site and pattern was useful to evaluate the malignant potential of cell proliferation .
Moreover , computed tomography ( CT ) showed a complete regression of the extensive lymph node and diffuse lung metastases , for a complete response ( CR ) .
Growth through the foveal center still can occur , however , and this can be associated with substantial visual loss .
The overexpression of Tsg101 resulted in increased phosphorylation of the epidermal growth factor receptor and downstream activation of MAP kinases .
Treatment of these T - cells with 5 - azacytidine resulted in the induction of DR surface antigen expression , the appearance of DR alpha mRNA , and the partial demethylation of the DR alpha DNA sequences .
PURPOSE : To determine the most efficient time point and concentration of topical corticosteroids in Candida albicans keratitis treated with fluconazole .
Increased nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 messenger RNA expression and absence of mutations in colon carcinomas of low and high metastatic potential .
18F - FDG and 123I - IMT uptake was quantified as ratios between the uptake by the tumour and contralateral regions of reference .
Immunohistochemistry scores for matrix metalloproteinase - 9 expression were significantly elevated compared to controls in scar endothelial cells and fibroblasts from 2 until 12 and 20 weeks , respectively .
Conversely , inducible over - expression of RASSF1C in breast cancer cells ( MDA - MB231 and T47D ) resulted in a small increase in cell proliferation .
Thus , in 5T4 - transfected CL - S1 murine mammary cells , 5T4 expression is associated with dendritic morphology , accompanied by abrogation of actin / cadherin - containing contacts and increased motility .
High - grade clear cell renal cell carcinoma has a higher angiogenic activity than low - grade renal cell carcinoma based on histomorphological quantification and qRT - PCR mRNA expression profile .
Optimizing treatment of choroidal neovascularization feeder vessels associated with age - related macular degeneration .
Frequent coffee consumption has been associated with a reduced risk of colorectal cancer in a number of case - control studies .
OBJECTIVE : p53 plays a role in tumor angiogenesis , and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) plays a key role in tumor angiogenesis .
They were also variably resistant to the anti - proliferative and anti - invasive signals from TGFbeta .
Effects of cyclooxygenase - 2 non - selective and selective inhibitors on proliferation inhibition and apoptosis induction of esophageal squamous carcinoma cells .
Despite considerable efforts in understanding the cellular mechanisms contributing to pancreatic cancer , the prognosis of this malignant disease is still extremely poor .
Although the Bcl - 2 and Bax levels were significantly higher in spheroids , Bcl - 2 / Bax ratio was similar in monolayers and spheroids .
Arteriogenesis : the development and growth of collateral arteries .
The effects of these alterations in placental functional development appear to be irreversible .
In epithelial cells , EphA2 and E - cadherin co - localize to sites of cell - cell contact , and it has been shown that E - cadherin regulates EphA2 .
Cytokines play an important role in creating an inflammatory microenvironment , which is now considered a hallmark of cancer .
Consistent with this hypothesis , inhibition of Erbb2 in v - ras ( Ha ) transgenic mice before UV exposure resulted in both 56 % fewer skin tumors and tumors that were 70 % smaller .
We also observed an overlap between C / EBPbeta and COX - 2 expression in GC .
Defective expression of HRK is associated with promoter methylation in primary central nervous system lymphomas .
Here we show that heterozygous disruption of beclin 1 increases the frequency of spontaneous malignancies and accelerates the development of hepatitis B virus - induced premalignant lesions .
Strikingly , 5 of 6 familial CCMs showed PTEN promoter methylation ( 83 . 3 % ) , which was significantly higher than in sporadic cases ( 9 . 4 % ; P < 0 . 001 ) .
Actin - sequestering protein , thymosin beta - 4 , is a novel hypoxia responsive regulator .
In this study , the expression of the cadherin - catenin complex and p53 was studied in early gastric cancer .
The expression of JUN , ERBB2 , MYC , cyclin D , PCNA , bFGF , VEGF and Hsp70 proteins revealed a positive correlation to lymph node involvement .
METHODS : Gene silencing and over - expression techniques were used to modulate RASSF1C expression in human breast cancer cells .
Another interesting cell type is the endothelial progenitor cell ( EPC ) , whose numbers increase in the presence of vascular damage .
Here we have demonstrated that mechanical strain - dependent induction of the CCN1 gene involves signaling cascades through RhoA - mediated actin remodeling and the p38 stress - activated protein kinase ( SAPK ) .
Hyperfibrinogenemia is associated with lymphatic as well as hematogenous metastasis and worse clinical outcome in T2 gastric cancer .
Despite convincing evidence of its efficacy , little is known about the mechanism of action of TnI as an anti - proliferative and anti - angiogenic agent .
For this reason , formalin - fixed , paraffin - embedded specimens from 130 patients with squamous cell lung carcinomas were analyzed by immunohistochemistry .
Angiostatin and thalidomide both inhibited tumor growth by about 55 % .
While the understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of IBD has recently improved , the mechanisms that link these chronic inflammatory states to colorectal cancer development are in large part unknown .
Implications for a possible role of tumor cell / host TGF - beta interactions in human breast cancer progression .
These effects of alpha - MSH may have important regulatory functions in extracellular matrix composition , wound healing , or angiogenesis .
Unlike wounds , however , that turn off VPF production after healing , tumors did not turn off their VPF production and instead continued to make large amounts of VPF , allowing malignant cells to continue to induce new blood vessels and so to grow and spread .
TF is involved in cell migration , embryogenesis and angiogenesis .
c - Met expression is regulated by Mitf in the melanocyte lineage .
Cells treated with anti - Fas also exhibited increased tyrosine phosphorylation of the c - met growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase .
The region contains a number of small open reading frames on each side and within the MSRs .
The apoptosis induced by Sim is probably initiated by the mitochondrial caspase 9 , which indirectly leads to activation of caspase 3 and 8 .
Our results showed that HeLa cells demonstrated the highest sensitivity to paclitaxel , whereas CaSki cells showed the lowest .
The only CD8 + CD56 + postthymic T - cell lymphoma also expressed all three cytolytic markers , two CD8 - ALCL expressed TIA1 ; other postthymic T - cell , T - lymphoblastic , and B - cell lymphomas were consistently negative .
PURPOSE : Head and neck squamous cell carcinomas have been reported to overexpress hypoxia - inducible factor ( HIF ) - 1alpha , a transcription factor that promotes expression of angiogenesis factors and resistance to programmed and therapy - induced cell death .
A marked coronary angiogenesis is known to occur with chronic bradycardia .
Apoptotic index ( AI ) was calculated , based on the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase - mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate biotin nick end labeling , to evaluate apoptosis .
The response to taxol and heparin - steroid was similar to that of the HPVAM , a validated angiogenesis assay .
Assessment of starved HUVECs at 14 days demonstrated sixfold more cells for AdCMV . VEGF165 - infected HUVECs ( 20 pfu per cell ) than for either infected or uninfected control cells .
Inhibitor of differentiation - 1 ( Id - 1 ) is a member of helix - loop - helix ( HLH ) family of proteins that regulate gene transcription through their inhibitory binding to basic - HLH transcription factors .
To assess its role on human vascular lung development , we first examined the expression of IGF - I / II and IGF receptor type I ( IGF - IR ) in human embryonic and fetal lung tissues at 4 - 12 wk of gestation .
Addition of exogenous PAI - 1 , however , prevented HT1080 cell adhesion ( IC50 180 nM ) and promoted cell detachment from vitronectin .
Moreover , the M2 - PK - binding peptide aptamers also reduced the proliferation rate of human U - 2 OS osteosarcoma cells .
Preliminary in vitro studies showed that the agents significantly inhibited RNA and DNA synthesis in Ehrlich ascites cells .
However , the expression level of E - cadherin had an inverse relationship with both differentiation level of the tumor and lymphatic vessel invasion ( p = 0 . 0430 and 0 . 0320 , respectively ) .
The existence of proteins encoded by the 3 ' region has been postulated on the basis of multiple open reading frames .
Myeloma cells counteracted the metabolic stress by activating autophagy .
This study investigates the systemic biochemical regulation of fracture healing in distraction osteogenesis compared with rigid osteotomy in a prospective in vivo study in humans .
Increases in VEGF could contribute to the blood - brain barrier breakdown and inflammation observed after seizures .
Here we show that IL - 12 activates an anti - angiogenic program in Con A - activated mouse spleen cells ( activated spc ) or human PBMC ( activated PBMC ) .
Induced over - and under - expression of these genes has been used to demonstrate their affect on some aspects of hematopoiesis and leukemogenesis .
These data support a new model for how tumor cells trigger metastasis by perturbing pericyte - endothelial cell - cell interactions .
The transcription factor NF - kappaB and associated regulatory factors ( including IkappaB kinase subunits and the IkappaB family member Bcl - 3 ) are strongly implicated in a variety of hematologic and solid tumor malignancies .
RESULTS : As of November 30 , 1994 , the median follow - up period was 12 years .
Inhibition of PG synthesis was without effect upon desensitization , demonstrating that the effect was not agonist - induced .
PD98059 , a specific MAPK / ERK kinase ( MEK ) 1 inhibitor , did not affect the induction of ets - 1 mRNA , whereas SB203580 , a specific p38 inhibitor , almost completely abrogated its induction .
Here we found that inactivation of the Notch effectors Hes1 , Hes3 and Hes5 , but not Hes1 alone , led to reduced cell proliferation , increased secretory cell formation and altered intestinal structures in adult mice .
The positive staining of nm23 - H1 gene product in primary cancers and metastatic lymph nodes were observed in 56 . 5 and 67 . 4 % , respectively .
VEGF gene expression and capillary density in the old donor - derived group were lower than those in the young donor - derived group but higher than those in the control group ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
Docetaxel has proved to be a first line treatment choice .
hADA3 functions as a coactivator for p53 - mediated transactivation by stabilizing p53 protein .
Group 2 animals had the same procedure of DMBA applications but also received alpha tocopherol .
PURPOSE : The comparative study of differentially expression of protein profiles of hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines with various metastasic potential and screening key molecules related to hepatocellular carcinoma metastasis and recurrence .
We also assessed the effect of C / EBPbeta on COX - 2 expression .
2 - DG did not induce a significant cell cycle delay in monolayers , while a transient G ( 2 ) delay was apparent in spheroids .
Caspase 8 ( involved in non - mitochondrial extrinsic pathway ) and caspase 9 ( involved in mitochondrial intrinsic pathway ) were also activated , but to a much lesser extent .
Capillary diameters increased significantly during pregnancy , especially after 4 weeks , when large flattened sinusoids formed .
No tumours were induced within the latent period for tumour production by control cells transfected with NIH3T3 cell DNA ( 40 - 60 days ) .
Studies with polymerase inhibitors suggest that this LTR transcript , designated let ( LTR - encoded trans activator ) , is a product of RNA polymerase III .
Indeed , adjuvant tamoxifen significantly prolonged DFS and OAS in c - erbB2 - negative cases , whereas it had no effect on DFS and OAS in c - erbB2 - positive patients .
Statistically significant differences were observed between groups 1 and 4 and between groups 1 and 3 regarding the hydroxyproline content of the abdominal wounds .
Western blotting analysis showed that liposomal honokiol - inhibited Akt and MAPK phosphorylation in 2 endothelial cells , and downregulated expressions of VEGFR - 2 of human vascular endothelial cells and VEGFR - 3 of lymphatic endothelial cells .
This work is again extremely significant for patients worldwide , as Dvorak ' s scientific research is leading his colleagues all over the world to examine how to treat a tumor through its blood supply .
The transition between both conformations contributes to the control of glycolysis and is important for tumor cell proliferation and survival .
These two enzymes were also found to have specificity for gelatin .
Treatment with 25 mg / kg cyclopamine significantly attenuated BrdU incorporation in tumor cells threefold ( P less than 0 . 001 ) , in tumor related endothelial cells threefold ( P = 0 . 004 ) , and delayed tumor growth by 4 days .
The 5T4 antigen is defined by a monoclonal antibody ( MAb ) specific for human trophoblast .
Truncated galectin - 3 inhibits tumor growth and metastasis in orthotopic nude mouse model of human breast cancer .
CONCLUSIONS : We have established a model to study the regulation of angiogenesis by human adipose tissue .
Urokinase receptor : a molecular organizer in cellular communication .
After removal of fibroblasts by exposure to G - 418 , the tumor cells exhibited increased metastatic ability and human K - ras oncogene mRNA , suggesting an intimate interaction between H - 3 cells and fibroblasts influencing the function of transfected human K - ras oncogene .
We believe that this group of RNAs , which map antisense to the ICP4 homolog gene , are latency - associated transcripts of MDV .
Functional studies by ectopically constitutive expression of Dss1 in JB6 Cl 41 - 5a preneoplastic cells strongly increased focus formation and proliferation of these cells and enhanced efficiency of neoplastic transformation of the cells in soft agar .
Thus , CECs , EPCs and EMPs may represent potentially novel methods for evaluating the vascular status of cancer patients .
CD40 engagement by CD154 did not affect apoptosis or survival .
T - antigen - mediated sensitization occurred independently of retinoblastoma protein or p53 and p300 binding .
Tumor cells express the glycolytic regulator pyruvate kinase subtype M2 ( M2 - PK ) , which can occur in a tetrameric form with high affinity to its substrate phosphoenolpyruvate ( PEP ) and a dimeric form with a low PEP affinity .
Molecular events leading to enhanced glucose transport in Rous sarcoma virus - transformed cells .
Left ventricular capillary length density ( mm / mm ( 3 ) ) increased gradually with alinidine administration ; a 15 % increase after 2 weeks and a 40 % increase after 3 weeks of alinidine treatment were documented .
Similar to tumors expressing dominant - negative TGF - beta type II receptor , histochemical studies revealed less fibrosis and increased angiogenesis in xenografted tumors expressing c - Ski compared to control tumors .
When a confluent monolayer of human umbilical vein endothelial cell line , ECV304 , was denuded , ECV304 at the wound edge expressed Ets - 1 .
Crosstalk between these two pathways is also thought to contribute to progression and hormone - refractory prostate disease .
The increased rate of glucose transport is dependent on the activity of pp60src , the transforming protein of Rous sarcoma virus .
These results also suggest therapeutic implications concerning Wnt signaling inhibitors .
METHODS : Corneas of 105 rabbits were infected with viable yeast cells of C . albicans ( 2 . 5 x 10 ( 5 ) ) .
PCNSLs with HRK methylation also showed methylation of multiple genes , such as p14ARF , p16INK4a , RB1 , p27Kip1 and O6 - MGMT .
In vitro studies have shown that the mast cell seems to behave as a helper cell for capillary endothelial cells , in some way speeding up their rate of directional migration .
The inhibiting mutants , including the Rb binding site mutant , were able to promote a higher state of Rb phosphorylation than that observed in either normal cells or cytoplasmic - SVLT transformants .
In 1986 , Dvorak went on to demonstrate that VPF was secreted by a variety of human tumor cell lines and proposed that VPF was in part responsible for the abnormal vasculature seen in human tumors .
IMPLICATIONS : Short - course cytotoxic chemotherapy after surgery has probably reached its zenith , and other strategies , perhaps antiangiogenic methods , are needed to successfully treat more patients .
Given that PLCbeta3 is typically known as an effector of heterotrimeric G - proteins , our data demonstrate a unique crosstalk between the G - protein and receptor tyrosine kinase ( RTK ) axes and reveal a novel molecular mechanism of VEGF signaling and , thus , angiogenesis .
U - 995 is composed of two single peptides with molecular mass of 10 and 14 kDa , respectively .
In all cases , there was complete concordance between the effects of hypoxia and AdCA5 .
CONCLUSIONS : These observations suggested that several subtypes of the AQP family play a role in human breast carcinogenesis .
STUDY DESIGN : Thirty - three archival cytologic specimens from eight patients with histologically confirmed malignant mesothelioma and 13 from patients with metastatic serous effusions were destained and then immunostained with anticalretinin antiserum .
Histological evaluation included amount of fibrous and fat encapsulation , connective tissue , foreign - body reaction , neovascularization , hemorrhage , necrosis , and exudate .
Adenovirus - mediated gene transfer of endostatin in vivo results in high level of transgene expression and inhibition of tumor growth and metastases .
However , the transfer of either the p16 or Rb gene to glioma cells results in cytostatic effect .
Upon retroviral transduction of the mouse c - myc gene , Rat 6 cells showed mildly altered morphology and formed microcolonies in soft agar ; furthermore , they could be transformed by BP and MNNG to form large colonies in agar ( Hsiao et al . ( 1992 ) Mol . Carcinogenesis , 5 , 140 - 154 ) .
CONCLUSION : PDT preserves vision in patients with CNV associated with PM .
CONCLUSION : BRAF p . Val600Lys mutations were present at a relatively high frequency in this cohort of metastatic melanoma patients ( 27 / 183 , 15 % ) .
Overall , our findings identify AMPK as an important target protein for mediating the anti - tumor properties of AglRhz in HT - 29 colon cancer cells and have important implication for sponges , the most important marine source , in colon cancer .
Genomic instability is one mechanism proposed to play a role in the disease progression of chronic myeloid leukemia ( CML ) .
Two distraction rates ( 0 . 5 and 1 mm / day ) were compared and for each group three patients were analyzed .
We have , therefore , measured the mRNA level of VEGF - B and VEGF - C together with their receptors by RNase protection assay ( RPA ) in 26 normal kidney samples and 45 renal cell cancers .
To evaluate the ability of AdCMV . VEGF165 to function in vivo , either AdCMV .
Only a subset of patients is suitable for laser coagulation .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is one of the most potent and a specific regulator of angiogenesis which principally targets endothelial cells and regulates several of their functions , including mitogenesis , permeability and migration .
Analysis of associations among studied proteins revealed positive correlation between Bcl - xL and Bax in primary tumors ( P < 0 . 03 , r = 0 . 307 ) .
The down - regulation of MTSS1 that may be caused by DNA methylation was also observed in many other types of cancer .
SUMMARY : Staging of colorectal cancer occurs after surgery and is based on the extent of disease invasiveness and dissemination .
Transformation by Rous sarcoma virus results in a dramatic increase in the rate at which the transformed cells transport glucose across the cell membrane .
The cytostatic drug doxorubicin is a well - known chemotherapeutic agent which is used in treatment of a wide variety of cancers .
Patients with tumors demonstrating concurrent methylation of more than half of their genes demonstrated significantly poorer survival and earlier recurrence .
The difference in metastatic potential correlated with the endogenous production levels of lymphangiogenic growth factor VEGF - C and the presence of tumor lymphatics .
CONCLUSIONS : These results suggest that , despite correlation of nm23 - H1 allelic deletions with colon cancers associated with poor prognosis , nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 alleles do not directly mediate metastasis suppression in colon carcinoma .
This analysis revealed a total of 22 protein - spots whose expression was altered by more than 3 - folds .
There was a significant positive relationship between PAI - 1 levels and N - stage ( p = < 0 . 05 ) , presence of nodal metastases ( p = < 0 . 05 ) , stage grouping ( p = < 0 . 01 ) and extent of disease ( p = < 0 . 05 ) in the total group and the SCC subgroup , but not adenocarcinoma .
Scrutiny of diagnostic indicators for verteporfin administration , including critical angiographic evaluation of lesion size and visual acuity , is essential to treatment success .
VEGF might be an important angiogenic factor , and could promote tumor angiogenesis in LSCC .
DESIGN : Differentially expressed proteins discovered between the two cell lines were identified by mass spectrometry .
METHODS : The parameters associated with locating and then photocoagulating CNV feeder vessels were identified and optimized using published data and data derived from modeling the choroidal vasculature .
Furthermore , infected cells evince a marked upregulation of the EBNA genes .
The subsequent identification of germline mutations in the gene encoding fumarase - - another TCA cycle enzyme - - in a new hereditary form of susceptibility to renal , uterine and cutaneous tumors has highlighted the potential role of the TCA cycle and , more generally , of the mitochondria in cancer .
Taken together , our results suggest that the induction of de novo lipid synthesis by androgen requires the transcriptional up - regulation of HK2 and PFKFB2 , and phosphorylation of PFKFB2 generated by the PI3K / Akt signalling pathway to supply the source for lipogenesis from glucose in prostate cancer cells .
Placental angiogenesis , which is physiologically normal , may serve as a general model of this process in other circumstances , such as tumor .
Strong positive expression of mEndostatin was seen in the tumor tissue after injection of Ad - mEndostatin , immunhistochemically ostained by mouse endostatin monoclonal antibody , while the control groups showed only very low expression or absence .
From a functional perspective , we observe that caffeine also significantly inhibits the A3 receptor - stimulated cell migration of colon cancer cells .
The results showed that thrombospondin is expressed in normal prostate but not in prostate tumours in a rat model .
Spontaneous metastasis indicates a possible reverse correlation .
Finally , the inhibition of PAK activation enhances the PSMA / filamin A interaction and , thus , boosts PSMA activity .
TES2 mediates the interaction with tumor necrosis factor receptor - associated death domain protein ( TRADD ) and plays a key role in transactivating NF - kappa B and AP - 1 .
As a result , he and other investigators demonstrated that VPF was capable of stimulating endothelial cell growth and angiogenesis .
It was the aim of this study to compare the value of measurement of glucose metabolism with that of measurement of 123I - IMT uptake for the non - invasive grading of brain tumours .
Correlation with clinico - pathological factors including LVI as retrieved by routine haematoxylin and eosin ( H . E . ) stained sections and the eligibility for the prediction of ALNM was assessed .
The virus - altered cells continued to proliferate in the presence of high levels of extracellular calcium but exhibited alterations in normal keratinocyte terminal differentiation that appear to be specific to the particular oncogene .
CONCLUSION : These results demonstrated that PTEN had played an important role in the cell proliferation , cell migration and invasion dependent on its phosphatase activity .
After successive growth in vitro for longer than one month which was scarcely observed with the erythrophores , the vast majority of such transformants began to differentiate into erythrophores and ceased proliferation spontaneously .
Enhanced endothelial cell growth and reduced platelet adhesion were observed on the perlecan coated grafts when compared to uncoated controls implanted in the same sheep ( n = 5 ) .
Hence , the down - regulation of p21WAF1 , together with the alterations in Bax and cdk2 as observed in our studies , may define a novel mechanism by which ciprofloxacin inhibits tumor cell growth and induces apoptotic cell death .
This down - regulation is accompanied by a rapid cleavage of Tie1 and binding of the cleaved Tie1 45 kDa endodomain to Tie2 .
Simultaneous involvement of the endometrium and the ovary by carcinoma is a familiar problem in the routine practice of surgical pathology .
These results suggest that p24delta1 and possibly other p24 family proteins are required for normal insulin biosynthesis and subsequent secretion in pancreatic beta - cells .
The erbA / myb IRES virus exhibited a 5 - 10 - fold higher transformed colony forming efficiency than the erbA IRES virus in the blastoderm assay .
The different tumorigenic potential of SV40 in WAP - T and WAP - mutCK1delta / WAP - T tumors was also reflected by a significantly different expression of various genes known to be involved in tumor progression , specifically of those involved in wnt - signaling and DNA repair .
It has been shown previously that the 55 - kDa polypeptide abrogates p53 - mediated transactivation and that mutants defective in p53 binding are unable to cooperate with E1A in transformation .
The ability of distinct subdomains within VASP to bind adhesion proteins and induce F - actin bundling in vivo suggests that this protein could function in the aggregation and tethering of actin filaments during the formation of endothelial cell - substrate and cell - cell contacts .
PURPOSE : Clinical studies have demonstrated that intensive insulin therapy causes a transient worsening of retinopathy .
Furthermore , mast cells have no mitogenic activity for capillary endothelial cells .
Early relapse with distant metastasis often is observed in patients with cancer after resection of the primary tumor .
In extracts of growing and stationary Swiss 3T3 cells , the total amount of protein kinase C activity was similar , indicating that growth state does not alter the level of enzyme in the cell .
The mean final visual acuity in eyes with higher refractive error at baseline ( greater than - 17 diopters ) was significantly better ( P = 0 . 014 ) than that in eyes with lower refractive error ( - 6 to - 10 diopters ) .
[ Activation of sterol regulatory element binding protein and its involvement in endothelial cell migration ]
We performed immunohistochemical staining of EphA2 and E - cadherin with EphA2 and E - cadherin monoclonal antibodies in samples from 194 primary lesions of colorectal cancer .
When TB4 expression in B16F10 cells was inhibited by the infection with small hairpin ( sh ) RNA of TB4 cloned in lentiviral vector , tumor cell migration was retarded .
These results indicate the possibility that activation of angiogenic activity after resection of osteosarcoma tumors enhances progression of pulmonary metastasis .
This work provides a demonstration that a combination of bioinformatics and comparative proteomics can help in finding out potential biomarkers associated with HCC metastasis on the level of pathways .
Plasmid DNA encoding each of the three principal human VEGF isoforms ( phVEGF121 , phVEGF165 , or phVEGF189 ) was applied to the hydrogel polymer coating of an angioplasty balloon and delivered percutaneously to one iliac artery of rabbits with operatively induced hindlimb ischemia .
Heat shock protein 27 ( HSP27 ) is one of the small heat shock proteins .
Interestingly , under normal conditions muscle cells express only a approximately 5 . 5 - kb type II HK RNA transcript .
Collectively , the experiments define the role of Ang - 2 during tumor angiogenesis and establish a better rationale for combination therapies involving Ang - 2 manipulatory therapies .
The role of fibrinolysis in growth and metastasis was examined in Lewis lung carcinoma of mice .
Thyroid transcription factor - 1 ( TTF - 1 ) is expressed in lung adenocarcinomas and thyroid carcinomas but not in adenocarcinomas arising from other sites .
The median time to disease progression while on treatment was 24 weeks .
A greater accumulation of peroxidative products ( thiobarbituric acid - reactive substances ) , inflammation and decreased levels of GSH and total antioxidant reserves were also observed in the skin of DMBA - Cum - OOH - exposed mice .
CD82 expression was significantly reduced in lymph node metastases .
Thrombospondin ( TSP ) - 1 , a potent angiogenesis inhibitor , has been shown to exert different biological functions on various cell types .
Thus , DATS may represent a colon cancer preventive agent and can be used in the future .
We further estimated the threshold of APC protein level that forms one polyp per mouse as approximately 15 % of the wild type .
Oxygen metabolism has an important role in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is a major regulator of angiogenesis that binds to tyrosine kinase receptors Flt - 1 and KDR .
The development of hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) presumably occurs in multiple steps and is influenced by numerous factors .
Suppressed transformation and induced differentiation of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells by emodin .
In this regard , inhibitors of these pathways have been shown to be effective antitumoral agents .
However , although beta ( 2 ) M and MHC class I are expressed on normal hematopoietic cells , which is a potential safety concern , the monoclonal antibodies were selective to tumor cells and did not damage normal cells in vitro or in human - like mouse models .
Correlation of lymphatic vessel density and vascular endothelial growth factor with nodal metastasis in papillary thyroid microcarcinoma .
p53 appears to be a nuclear transcription factor that plays a role in the control of cell proliferation , apoptosis , and the maintenance of genetic stability .
Recent studies have shown that E - cadherin has an important role as an invasion suppressor molecule in epithelial tumor cells .
Active hair growth ( anagen ) is associated with angiogenesis .
Pre - treatment with rapamycin inhibited activation of mTOR signalling and significantly enhanced the sensitivity of CaSki cells to paclitaxel by increasing apoptotic cell death .
They code for proteins of 21 kDa , highly conserved in evolution , which belong to the superfamily of ras GTPases .
Surprisingly , TSP - 2 expression was strongly upregulated in the mesenchymal stroma of wild - type mice throughout the consecutive stages of tumorigenesis whereas the angiogenesis factor , vascular endothelial growth factor , was induced predominantly in tumor cells .
None of the test drugs demonstrated significant anti - edema activity .
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE : Cerebral cavernous malformations ( CCMs ) are prevalent cerebral vascular lesions involving aberrant angiogenesis .
Previously we observed that neural cell adhesion molecule ( NCAM ) deficiency in beta tumor cells facilitates metastasis into distant organs and local lymph nodes .
The cellular tumour antigen p53 is found at elevated levels in a wide variety of transformed cells ( for reviews see refs 1 , 2 ) .
Although the exact mechanisms underlying the Warburg effect are unclear , the existing evidence suggests that increased glycolysis plays an important role in support malignant behavior of cancer cells .
Compared with control animals transfected with LacZ , site - specific transfection of phVEGF resulted in augmented collateral vessel development documented by serial angiography , and improvement in calf blood pressure ratio ( ischemic to normal limb ) , resting and maximum blood flow , and capillary to myocyte ratio .
These results indicate that Hyp is a powerful anti - inflammatory compound with therapeutic potential , and they elucidate mechanistic keys .
Induction of these genes also occurred in diverticulitis and digestive neoplasms such as gastric and esophageal carcinomas .
RESULTS : Vandetanib treatment had no effect on tumor cell clonogenic cell survival in vitro but doses > or = 10 nM significantly reduced endothelial cell migration .
Boyden double - membrane analysis of chemotaxis showed that 9E3 / CEF4 was chemotactic for chicken peripheral blood mononuclear cells , as well as for heterophils .
The detection of increased abundance of EGF - R or Her - 2 / neu proteins in human tumours can provide additional information on the disease - free survival and overall survival for patients with breast , ovarian , endometrial or cervical cancer .
Liposomal honokiol inhibits VEGF - D - induced lymphangiogenesis and metastasis in xenograft tumor model .
The selective antimetastatic agents p - ( 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 1 - triazeno ) benzoic acid potassium salt ( DM - COOK ) , 5 - ( 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 1 - triazeno ) imidazole - 4 - carboxamide ( DTIC ) and ( + / - ) 1 , 2 - di ( 3 , 5 - dioxopiperazin - 1 - yl ) propane ( ICRF - 159 ) have been shown to markedly depress the formation of spontaneous hematogenous metastases in mice bearing s . c .
BACKGROUND : Inflammation followed by fibrosis is a component of islet dysfunction in both rodent and human type 2 diabetes .
Furthermore , a significant relationship between the expression of EphA2 and E - cadherin was observed .
In situ fluorescent end labeling was used to label apoptotic cells .
Vimentin expression was found preferentially in tumors with high GF ( greater than 15 % Ki - 67 positive by immunoperoxidase staining ) and low ER levels ( less than 60 fmols / mg protein by a monoclonal enzyme immunoassay ) .
Airway angiogenesis and microvascular remodeling are known features of bronchial asthma , but the mechanisms of these structural alterations are just beginning to be elucidated .
CONCLUSION : These results demonstrated that cRGD - modified heparin derivative enhanced anti - angiotherapeutic effects against solid tumor , and therefore , it could be applied to treat various cancers and angiogenic diseases as a potent angiogenesis inhibitor .
HAH - cortisol at 10 ( - 4 ) M ( with respect to cortisol ) did not suppress the DNA synthesis of Lewis lung carcinoma cells .
Orthogonal polarization spectral imaging showed no difference in functional capillary density between the scaffolds cultured on chorioallantoic membranes .
Enhanced IGF - 1 expression improves smooth muscle cell engraftment after cell transplantation .
Members of the src and ras oncogene families supplant the epidermal growth factor requirement of BALB / MK - 2 keratinocytes and induce distinct alterations in their terminal differentiation program .
Marked angiogenesis is induced by implantation of a chamber containing RENCA cells into mice .
In addition , 15d - PGJ ( 2 ) suppressed tumour necrosis factor - alpha - induced - COX - 2 expression , confirming the reciprocal correlation between COX - 2 and PPARgamma .
The nucleotide sequence of the cDNA was shown to be identical to that of the 3 ' untranslated region of a putative mammalian polycomb group gene , mel - 18 .
Finally , annexin II down - regulation was positively associated with lymph node metastasis , suggesting that it may be a prognostic factor in NPC .
BACKGROUND : We suggest that surgical extirpation of primary breast cancer among other effects accelerates relapse for some premenopausal node - positive patients .
AQP5 was expressed mainly in cell membranes in carcinoma tissues , but was almost absent in normal breast tissues .
These studies showed that allergen - induced pulmonary inflammation resulted in a > 3 - fold increase in lung metastases .
TESTING THE HYPOTHESIS : Stimulation of dormant micrometastases by primary tumor removal is known to occur in animal models .
From 35 to 100 % of the whole amount of ATP resynthesized via glycolysis is utilized for transport purposes .
These patients included many who were enrolled in the Epidermolysis Bullosa Registry and others who were referred by their physicians .
VEGF mRNA expression was also observed in Ve - and OMP - stimulated HGF .
Epithelial keratitis , disciform edema , and necrotizing keratitis with neovascularization of the cornea developed in control animals .
These data suggest that angiogenesis in operable non - small cell lung cancer is a major prognostic factor for survival and , among the parameters tested , is the only factor related to cancer cell migration to lymph nodes .
Perfusion thresholds were estimated at tumor blood flow values of 69 . 0 + / - 0 . 1 ml / 100 g / min ( estimate + / - standard error ) and of 69 + / - 7 . 1 ml / 100 g / min for the beginning of the decline in regional ATP and glucose content , respectively .
Comparison of transformation by manganese sulfate and 5 - azacytidine in Rat 6 cells overexpressing the c - myc oncogene .
This suggests that FOXO3a is a potential suppressor of carcinogenic damage in LAC .
CONCLUSIONS : Retinal vasculopathies may be observed in eyes with PED and are detectable by indocyanine green and fluorescein angiography .
At protein level , VEGF - B and C , Flt - 1 , and KDR were not detectable in tissue lysates , whereas VEGF - A was increased in stages III and IV .
Phosphorylation of Thr654 by protein kinase C decreases high affinity EGF binding and EGF - stimulated tyrosine protein kinase activity , providing a mechanism for heterologous regulation of the EGF receptor by tumor promoters and other ligand X receptor complexes .
The results show that , without affecting in vitro human PMN viability and chemokine - receptor expression , Hyp ( as stable dicyclohexylammonium salt ) was able to inhibit in a dose - dependent manner their chemotaxis and chemoinvasion ( IC50 = 1 microM for both ) ; this effect was associated with a reduced expression of the adhesion molecule CD11b by formyl - Met - Leu - Phe - stimulated neutrophils and block of LE - triggered activation of the gelatinase matrix metalloproteinase - 9 .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : Recombinant human galectin - 3 was produced in Escherichia coli from which galectin - 3C was derived by collagenase enzyme digestion .
In oral keratinocytes BAG - 1L , but not BAG - 1M and BAG - 1S , enhanced VDR transactivation in response to 1alpha , 25 - dihydroxyvitamin D3 .
In addition , most of these agents require instrumentation of the urinary tract and are delivered at a significant cost and potential morbidity to the patient .
Emodin , at a 40 - microM concentration , which repressed tyrosine kinase of p185neu , efficiently inhibited both anchorage - dependent and anchorage - independent growth of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells .
VTAs inhibit specific factors required to induce and direct the angiogenic process , with major activity against small tumor masses and at the tumor periphery , encompassing monoclonal antibodies and small molecules inhibitors of the tyrosine kinase domain of the VEGF receptor .
In this work , we show that LPA stimulates invasion of primary ovarian cancer cells , but not ovarian epithelial or borderline ovarian tumor cells , although these benign cells indeed respond to LPA in cell migration .
Thus , the differential regulation of hTERT and VEGF in p63 - positive breast carcinomas may contribute to the clinically more aggressive behavior of these neoplasms .
Furthermore , Cox regression analysis showed that CYR61 and CTGF expression had a significant correlation with patient survival .
By contrast to the cytoplasmic BAG - 1 isoforms , BAG - 1L may act to suppress tumorigenesis .
In this study , we examined whether all - trans - retinoic acid ( all - trans - RA ) and other retinoids , which exhibit antitumor activity in vitro and in vivo , affect the collagenolytic activity of metastatic rat 13762NF mammary adenocarcinoma cells .
We found a significant positive correlation between IL - 8 and estradiol in normal breast tissue and hormone - dependent breast cancer in vivo .
The specific isoform ( s ) of PKC responsible for each of these changes has not been previously identified .
The cell death pathway initiated by survivin targeting was mapped with respect to cytochrome c release , changes in mitochondrial transmembrane potential , and apoptosome requirements using mouse embryonic fibroblasts deficient in Apaf - 1 or caspase - 9 .
Solid tumors are frequently necrotic and hypoxic due to poor vascularization .
Our observations indicate that combined inactivation of PIM - 1 and PIM - 2 interferes with oncogenic PTKs and suggest that PIMs are alternative therapeutic targets in PTK - mediated leukemia .
A key role for the integrin alpha2beta1 in experimental and developmental angiogenesis .
The role of p53 in glucose metabolism .
In contrast , none of the patients with JEB had elevated levels of bFGF .
B - cell lines established from two individuals with T - cell acute lymphocytic leukemia ( T - ALL ) express HLA - DR antigens , whereas the isogenic T - cells do not .
The presence of microvascular proliferation leads to the histological diagnosis of glioblastoma multiforme .
CONCLUSIONS : These results suggest that CD40 expression on lung cancer may play a role in metastatic spread , and also may serve as a prognostic marker and an indicator of advanced disease .
Verteporfin has a high affinity for choroidal neovascular membranes , typically found with exudative AMD , and upon photoactivation results in targeted microvascular damage and thrombus formation with resultant vessel occlusion .
Since the HTR8 line has a limited in vitro lifespan of 12 - 15 passages , SV40 Tag - transformed cells were selected on the basis of extended lifespan .
Animals were sacrificed at 3 - week intervals from 0 to 39 weeks after treatments began .
A connection between CAM and adipose tissue vessels was evidenced by immunohistochemistry , with recruitment of both avian and human endothelial cells .
These results support the clinical findings and indicate that modulation of PAI - 1 activity may be of therapeutic benefit for the treatment of cancer .
Moreover , about 10 % of v - fos transformed cells transfected with vectors that express antisense junB mRNA acquired a non - transformed phenotype .
Impaired apoptosis of pulmonary endothelial cells is associated with intimal proliferation and irreversibility of pulmonary hypertension in congenital heart disease .
The bFGF loaded PLGA - heparin microspheres were tested for in vitro release and in vivo angiogenic activity .
Bee venom induces apoptosis and inhibits expression of cyclooxygenase - 2 mRNA in human lung cancer cell line NCI - H1299 .
Analysis of gene expression revealed increased expression of ANGPT1 , ANGPT2 , platelet - derived growth factor - B , placental growth factor , and VEGF mRNA in AdCA5 - injected eyes .
The rabbits were sacrificed and the specimens were procured at 3 days , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 and 6 weeks after surgery for histological observation , Chinese ink perfusion and CD34 immunohistochemistry .
The objective of this article is to explain radiologic patterns of benign and malignant breast lesions ( masses , microcalcifications ) based on histological correlations .
Immunohistochemical analysis of nm23 - H1 gene product in node - positive lung cancer and lymph nodes .
Osteonectin transcript and metastatic behavior in v - Ki - ras transformed fibroblasts .
However , as only a fraction of cells in advanced Kaposi ' s sarcoma lesions express vGPCR , it is unclear whether this unique viral oncogene contributes to Kaposi ' s sarcoma progression .
This creates a network of Hedgehog signaling that determines the malignant behavior of the tumor cells .
Melissoidesin G , a diterpenoid purified from Isodon melissoides , induces leukemic - cell apoptosis through induction of redox imbalance and exhibits synergy with other anticancer agents .
Induction of IL - 8 was UV - B dose dependent and blocked by cyclohexamide , indicating that de novo protein synthesis is required for its expression .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : The paraffin sections from 49 subjects with OSCC were subjected to immunohistochemical studies to measure the highest MVD ( h - MVD ) and cytoplasmic immunoreactivity of VEGF .
Bevacizumab was discontinued in 2 patients because of nonfatal intracranial bleeding .
Treatment of NIH 3T3 cells with the PKC inhibitor staurosporine , the tyrosine kinase inhibitor herbimycin A , and the AA metabolism inhibitor quinacrine induces apoptotic cell death .
Until recently , their role in pathogenesis was largely unexplored .
However , mutant WT1 ( R394W ) which has a mutation in the DNA binding domain could not repress the N - myc promoter .
All of these results indicate that Akt / mTOR - dependent translation of HIF - 1alpha plays a critical role in the postirradiation up - regulation of intratumoral HIF - 1 activity in response to radiation - induced alterations of glucose and oxygen availability in a solid tumor .
These results demonstrate endogenous gene regulation by BAG - 1L by potentiating nuclear hormone receptor function and suggest a role for BAG - 1L in 24 - hydroxylase regulation of vitamin D metabolism and the cellular response of oral keratinocytes to 1alpha , 25 - dihydroxyvitamin D3 .
Loss of expression was frequent in both EOGC and conventional gastric cancers .
INTRODUCTION : Increased angiogenesis in bone marrow is one of the characteristics of chronic myeloid leukaemia ( CML ) , a clonal myeloproliferative disorder that expresses a chimeric bcr / abl protein .
Thus , ATX appears to augment cellular characteristics necessary for tumor aggressiveness .
CONCLUSION : This study identifies specific components of the Robo signaling apparatus that work together to guide directional migration of endothelial cells .
Metabolic thresholds were derived at tumor glucose utilization values of 70 . 6 + / - 8 . 3 mumol / 100 g / min for reduced protein synthesis , of 55 . 0 + / - 0 . 2 mumol / 100 g / min for the decrease in glucose content , and 34 . 7 + / - 4 . 7 mumol / 100 g / min for decline in ATP content .
CONCLUSION : Vascular bundle implantation improved angiogenesis in non - vascularized autogenous bone graft in this study .
Radiologic defect area measurement results at 0 , 4 , and 16 weeks were compared between the groups .
Homeobox genes have a strikingly conserved 61 - amino acid sequence , encoding DNA - binding domain .
The median response duration was 8 . 2 months .
Oxidation in rheumatoid arthritis .
Metastatic disease is one of the major causes of death from cancer in human beings .
Efficient inhibition of ovarian cancer growth and prolonged survival by transfection with a novel pro - apoptotic gene , hPNAS - 4 , in a mouse model .
The eph gene encodes a putative receptor tyrosine kinase for an as yet unknown ligand .
Grossly , these tumors were small and had few feeding vessels .
This may explain why some patients remain without symptoms or signs of ischemia .
The microvessel density ( MVD ) ) decreased from 42 . 4 + / - 4 . 8 to 10 . 5 + / - 3 . 2 per x 200 magnificetion microscopic field by CD10 staining and from 68 . 5 + / - 4 . 5 to 37 . 5 + / - 4 . 6 by CD31 staining , respectively ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
These results suggest that MnSO4 co - operates with overexpressed c - myc in inducing transformation , while 5 - azacytidine transformation is independent of c - myc overexpression and may involve alterations in the regulation of apoptosis .
Six of the 8 patients whose disease progressed have died .
The delayed application of corticosteroids after treatment with antimycotic drugs in cases of fungal keratitis is therefore not contraindicated and may be beneficial in patients .
Protein kinase C levels in several transformed cell lines were subject to down modulation in a similar growth state - dependent manner .
We assessed the effects of these mutations on the ability of the v - fos protein to transform chicken embryo fibroblasts and to stimulate cellular proliferation of chicken neuroretinal cells .
The decline in circulating endothelial cells and their precursors suggests that this combination may be working by inhibiting angiogenesis but should be validated in a larger patient sample .
Since glucose phosphorylation is the first step in glycolysis , hexokinase ( HK ) , the first rate limiting glycolytic enzyme , can play a key regulatory role in this process .
This study was aimed to determine the minimal fragment of PEDF , which maintains antiangiogenic and antitumor efficacy .
The adenomatous polyposis coli ( APC ) gene , whose mutations are responsible for familial adenomatous polyposis , is a major negative controller of the Wnt / beta - catenin pathway .
Autopsy studies have revealed that intimal thickening represents the first stage of atherosclerosis and that lipid - rich plaque arises from such lesions .
The structural and functional development of the pulmonary system is dependent upon appropriate early vascularization of the embryonic lung .
The review is focused on the participation of polymorphonuclear granulocytes ( neutrophils ) in development and spreading of a tumor .
Cells transformed by Rous sarcoma virus release transforming growth factors .
Androgen signaling through androgen receptor ( AR ) is critical for prostate tumorigenesis .
These findings demonstrate a requirement for VEGFR1 + haematopoietic progenitors in the regulation of metastasis , and suggest that expression patterns of fibronectin and VEGFR1 + VLA - 4 + clusters dictate organ - specific tumour spread .
Two approaches were used to measure protein kinase C : assay of intact cells for inhibition of epidermal growth factor ( EGF ) binding in response to phorbol dibutyrate ( PDBu ) ; and assay of detergent extracts for total calcium , phospholipid - dependent kinase activity .
However , tumor incidence was lower and life span was significantly longer in WAP - mutCK1delta / WAP - T bi - transgenic animals .
Despite intensive investigations , the target genes of c - myb that are specifically involved in development of these myeloid lineage neoplasms are still unknown .
These results suggest a novel treatment for RDEB , namely , angiogenesis inhibitors , which may antagonize the effects of bFGF in this disorder .
They also antagonised the effects of both thrombin and SFLLR on MMP - 2 activation .
Immunohistochemistry with 27 primary antibodies was performed in 100 formalin - fixed paraffin - embedded samples of invasive ductal carcinomas .
The prosurvival autophagic response of myeloma to nutrient deprivation or to nucleoside analogue treatment has not been described previously .
Angiogenesis plays a critical role in the growth and metastasis of tumors .
These processes are regulated by numerous pro - angiogenic and anti - angiogenic growth factors .
Although Evi - 1 is thought to promote growth or block differentiation in some cell types , its biological functions have not been elucidated .
IMPLICATIONS : These findings also contrast with the demonstration of nm23 metastasis suppressor activity in murine melanoma and with the correlation of loss of nm23 expression in breast cancer with poor prognosis .
The antisense oligomers complementary to the ER suppressed proliferation and transformed phenotypes of K12V cells .
Topoisomerase I protein expression in primary colorectal cancer and lymph node metastases .
There was also a direct correlation between the presence of choroidal neovascularization and size of the PED ( P = 0 . 03 ) .
In a mouse model of endotoxemia , DSCR - 1s - deficient mice demonstrated increased sepsis mortality , whereas adenovirus - mediated DSCR - 1s overexpression protected against LPS - induced lethality .
However , it is clear that the Notch signaling pathway mediates its effects through intercellular contact between neighboring cells .
A possible explanation for the decrease in the ATP level might be interaction of the amine oxide with the cell membrane .
LDH5 overexpression was associated with histological type ( adenocarcinoma = 57 % , squamous cell carcinoma = 45 % , large cell carcinoma = 46 % , p = 0 . 006 ) .
SPARC maybe involved in the regulation of anti - angiogenesis by which it may serve as a novel target for colon cancer treatment as well as a novel distinctive marker .
Interference with the function of transcription factor AP - 2 might provide a potential strategy for modulation of the malignant phenotype .
BACKGROUND : Roundabouts are axon guidance molecules that have recently been identified to play a role in vascular guidance as well .
Adult mutants became sterile males due to the meiotic arrest of spermatocytes , which then died by apoptosis , followed by neoplastic proliferation of gonad somatic cells that was similar to neoplasia observed in ageing dead end ( dnd ) - knockdown males , which lack germ cells .
BACKGROUND : Abdominal surgery can lead to intra - abdominal adhesions with significant morbidity and mortality .
To examine the mechanisms underlying the relative resistance in HCC , we investigated the role of autophagy , an evolutionarily conserved self - digestion pathway , in hepatoma cells in vitro and in vivo .
Such cases may be considered either examples of a single primary carcinoma with metastasis or as synchronous primary neoplasms .
Thus , antiapoptotic mechanisms have to be operative in neuroblastoma cells that antagonize the proapoptotic effects of N - myc .
CONCLUSION : In early - stage breast cancer patients , overexpression of c - erbB2 is a marker of lack of efficacy of adjuvant tamoxifen .
Therefore we suggest that HKa through its D5 domain alters P13 - kinase - Akt signaling to inhibit endothelial cell migration through alterations in the focal adhesions .
Both were positive for HIF - 1alpha and phosphorylated c - Myc , and only one was positive for pAkt .
This remodeling process seems to be mainly flow - mediated .
Nitric oxide ( NO ) is an important molecule in regulating tumour blood flow and stimulating tumour angiogenesis .
S . c . injection into nude mice with mixed - cell populations formed tumors that approximate the ratio of vGPCR - expressing and KSHV latent gene - expressing cells .
AIMS : As one of the five lactate dehydrogenase ( LDH ) isoenzymes , LDH5 has the highest efficiency to catalyze pyruvate transformation to lactate .
The specific CD47 - activating peptide , 4N1K , similarly induced cell death in human brain microvascular endothelial cells .
An earlier study showed that thrombospondin is expressed in benign prostatic hyperplasia ( BPH ) and high - grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia ( PIN ) but is absent in prostate cancer .
In the current study , Hedgehog signaling in tumor related vasculature and microenvironment was examined using human umbilical vein endothelial cells and B16F0 ( murine melanoma ) tumors models .
Prognostic value of HLA - DR expression and dendritic cell infiltration in gastric cancer .
All had palpable pedal pulses .
Sensitization to gimatecan - induced apoptosis by tumor necrosis factor - related apoptosis inducing ligand in prostate carcinoma cells .
RESULTS : LOH of D10S541 , D10S583 and D10S1687 was found in 37 . 5 % ( 21 / 56 ) of advanced gastric cancers .
In combination with TNF or melphalan , L - NAME increased response rates significantly compared to perfusions without L - NAME ( 0 - 64 % and 0 - 63 % respectively ) .
Research and discovery of the first human cancer virus , HTLV - 1 .
We previously showed in colorectal cancer that sVAP - 1 expression is significantly higher relative to controls , and this decreased expression is associated with poor prognosis and lymph node and liver metastasis .
However , survival analysis showed that the COUP - TFII - positive group had a significantly better OS compared to COUP - TFII - negative group ( 80 . 4 % vs . 57 . 7 % , P = 0 . 0491 ) .
The area covered by spread EC was dramatically enlarged , accompanied by an increase in focal contacts and altered organization of actin filaments .
The impact of elevated VEGF expression on the course of chronic myeloid leukaemia is unknown .
Expression of KISS1 and MMP - 9 in non - small cell lung cancer and their relations to metastasis and survival .
Met amplification and tumor progression in Cdkn2a - deficient melanocytes .
PTHrP drives breast tumor initiation , progression , and metastasis in mice and is a potential therapy target .
These results demonstrate the importance of specific oncogene interaction in myeloid leukemogenesis .
Regulation of the composition of the extracellular matrix by low density lipoprotein receptor - related protein - 1 : activities based on regulation of mRNA expression .
The mechanism of caffeine seems to involve the inhibition of the extracellular signal - regulated kinase 1 / 2 ( ERK1 / 2 ) , p38 , and Akt , leading to a marked decrease in adenosine - induced HIF - 1alpha accumulation , VEGF transcriptional activation , and VEGF and IL - 8 protein accumulation .
Further investigation using inhibition or genetic deletion of Erbb2 in vitro revealed reduced Cdc25a levels and increased S - phase arrest in UV - irradiated cells lacking Erbb2 activity .
Punica granatum ( pomegranate ) and its potential for prevention and treatment of inflammation and cancer .
To test this we generated Nestin - Bmi - 1 - GFP transgenic mice .
Using a retroviral gene transfer approach , we found that constitutive activation of MEK5 / ERK5 signaling strongly inhibits EC migration and results in massive morphological changes .
With the discovery that TGFbeta1 was a potent growth inhibitor of epithelial cells , and the identification of inactivating mutations within the TGFbeta1 signaling pathway in cancers it became clear that TGFbeta1 signaling is a tumor suppressor pathway for early stages of cancer .
31P MR spectra showed that phosphocreatine was present in H5 spheroids but not in H4 spheroids or tumors .
The control WB cells in continuous culture slowly developed TGF - beta resistance .
IFN - alpha / beta signalling itself does not activate p53 ; rather , it contributes to boosting p53 responses to stress signals .
RESULTS : U - 995 ( 15 and 30 micrograms / ml ) markedly inhibited HUVEC migration and , at 15 - 50 micrograms / ml produced a dose - dependent decline in [ 3H ] - thymidine incorporation .
No significant differences between the two groups were observed in tumor size , gender , age , histology , differentiation or preoperative therapy .
The ras - transformed , ATX - secreting subclones had enhanced motility to ATX as chemoattractant , but there was little difference in the motility responses of NIH3T3 cells transfected with atx , an inactive mutant gene , or empty vector .
Reactive astrocytic processes and phagocytic cells are also present in the grafts .
Evaluation of VEGF expression level with the same tissues was used to establish the antigenic profiles , and the marker of CD34 staining was used as an indicator of microvessel density ( MVD ) .
Notably , ARD1 was critical for transcriptionally regulating a number of AR target genes that are involved in prostate tumorigenesis .
DMBA maxima were significantly higher than those of DMBA + radiation .
Structural changes were promoted by toxicity of glucose degradation products ( GDPs ) which are generated during heat sterilization in peritoneal dialysis fluids ( PDFs ) .
In this review focus will be on OPN in bone and its role in adhesion , migration and cell survival .
35 % of eyes improved their BCVA by 2 lines or more , 45 % remained stable and 18 % lost 2 lines or more .
The increased transport rate is a consequence of an increased number of transporters in the transformed cells .
Hence , GM - CSF and IL - 3 enhance the intracellular metabolism of ara - C and its incorporation into the DNA of leukemic cells leading to a higher antileukemic activity of ara - C on clonogenic leukemic cells ( CFU - L ) .
The proliferative response of bovine retinal capillary endothelial cells to EGF is dependent upon attaching the cells to a matrix of fibronectin .
But little is known about the characteristics of young donor - derived MSCs transplanted to old patients with AMI .
Domain 5 ( D5 ) of cleaved high molecular weight kininogen ( HKa ) inhibits angiogenesis in vivo and endothelial cell migration in vitro , but the cell signaling pathways involved in HKa and D5 inhibition of endothelial cell migration are incompletely delineated .
This aggregation process was irreversible and was inversely correlated with the percentage of lung cells that took up lipoplexes and with the efficiency of lipofection .
We have previously characterized the structure of a gene in A - 172 human glioma cells that encodes a 190 - kDa EGFR mutant with tandem duplication of the tyrosine kinase ( TK ) and calcium - mediated internalization ( CAIN ) domains .
A similar result was observed in invasive carcinomas ( 0 / 12 ) .
METHODS : Transplant tumor model was induced by subcutaneous inoculation of 2 x 10 ( 6 ) Lewis lung cancer ( LLC ) cells into the back of C57BL / 6 mice .
A further study found that FGFR2 - positive fibroblasts were only observed inside the tumor tissues and not in tumor - surrounding stromal tissues , suggesting that FGFR2 could be used as a TF - specific marker in ESCC .
There is a crucial need to identify parameters that can predict a tendancy to metastatic spread to allow better prognostic evaluation and therapeutic approach .
In order to explore the mechanism of action of angiostatin and its mimetics , further work needs to be done to evaluate clinical applicability , specificity , and contraindications for this class of therapeutics .
Results show that the process : VEGF - a - - greater than EphA2 - - greater than MMPs - - greater than VM is the main pathway for VM formation and VEGF - a appears to play an important role in the formation of VM based on our in vitro assays and clinical immunohistochemical analyses .
Southern blotting and probing with PCR - synthesized cDNA fragments of the mouse 72 kDa type IV collagenase gene showed that this gene was present in all cells although the structure of this gene in one of the three LTA cell lines differed from that of the other cells .
These results define a novel function of Evi - 1 as a repressor of signaling components of TGF - beta .
A portion of bilateral radial bones of a rabbit were removed as free bone grafts , whose periostea were peeled off .
Mast cells were found to be unique among the peritoneal leukocytes by virtue of their capacity to enhance profoundly the proliferation of a variety of tumors in vitro .
sDll4 similarly induced defective vascular response in tumor implants leading to reduced tumor growth .
When the patients were divided into two groups according to their alpha - SMA expression using a cutoff point at the mean value of 8 . 48 % , the high alpha - SMA group had a significantly poorer overall survival rate ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
The neural stem cell fate determinant TLX plays a pivotal role in neurogenesis in the adult brain by maintaining neural stem cells .
Irradiation delivered before implantation ( 900 cGy ) inhibited neovascularization significantly less than the same dose administered after implantation .
Isotype - specific inhibitors of the glycolytic key regulator pyruvate kinase subtype M2 moderately decelerate tumor cell proliferation .
Increased VEGF expression by malignant tumors has been associated with high vascularity , increased cancer cell growth , and lymph node metastasis .
New Zealand white rabbits were given limbal inoculations of a heat - killed suspension of herpes simplex virus ( HSV ) in a lysate of human embryonic kidney cells .
Inhibition of the mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) by rapamycin increases chemosensitivity of CaSki cells to paclitaxel .
The authors studied insulin effects on tumor and skeletal muscle metabolism with 2 - [ 18F ] - fluoro - 2 - deoxy - D - glucose ( [ 18F ] FDG ) and positron emission tomography ( PET ) .
They also induced local angiogenesis in vivo in an animal model .
This first analysis is based on 73 patients ( 50 women , 23 men , median age 74 . 3 years ) , with a median follow - up of 13 . 3 months and a minimum follow - up of 11 months .
HTPB significantly suppresses tumor metastasis partly through inhibition of integrin - beta1 / FAK / MMP / RhoA / F - actin pathways .
Expression of thymidylate synthase and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase in primary oral squamous cell carcinoma and corresponding metastases in cervical lymph nodes : association with the metastasis suppressor CD82 .
Tumorigenic hybrid derivatives contained lower numbers of chromosomes than the tetraploid parental hybrids .
ERK1 / 2 and JNK inactivation was associated with Ets - like transcription factor - 1 ( ELK - 1 ) dephosphorylation .
It is clear that this cycle functions optimally in skin of dark pigmentation .
Promotion of inflammation was also involved because lower TSP - 1 was able to up - regulate the adhesion molecules intercellular adhesion molecule - 1 and vascular cell adhesion molecule - 1 .
Such repression activity was totally absent with mutant pm490 / 1 / 5A .
Matrix metalloproteinase activity , determined using a quenched fluorescence substrate assay , increased during early healing ( 3 - 8 weeks ) compared to controls , and then decreased between 24 and 36 weeks after surgery ( p less than 0 . 05 until 24 weeks , Mann - Whitney U - test ) .
CONCLUSION : Loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 appears to play a role in both EOGC and conventional gastric carcinogenesis , and c - myc overexpression is likely to be an important oncogenic consequence of CDC4 / FBXW7 loss .
This analysis revealed a higher expression of vessel maturation and stabilisation factors ( placental growth factor , PDGFB1 , angiopoietin 1 ) in CC - RCC with high MVD , a group of CC - RCC highly enriched in low nuclear grade CC - RCC , with low ECP % .
Vimentin is preferentially expressed in human breast carcinomas with low estrogen receptor and high Ki - 67 growth fraction .
The rapid cleavage of Tie1 is followed by a transcriptional down - regulation in response to shear stress .
To address this question further , we analyzed the expression of c - myc in a myeloblastic cell line , M1 , expressing a conditionally active c - Myb - estrogen receptor fusion protein ( MybER ) .
Western blot and immunohistochemical assays were used to evaluate Fas and FasL protein expression .
Although antibodies to PAI - 1 did not affect the adhesion of HT1080 cells to vitronectin , the antibody to uPA reduced their attachment .
Modulation of invasion within such systems is ascribed to balances between promoter and suppressor pathways .
Human pituitary tumor transforming gene ( PTTG ) overexpression correlates with metastasis in multiple tumors , and yet its molecular mechanisms of action remain elusive .
No vessels were visualized in the controls .
As TGF - beta is a potent negative growth regulator of hematopoietic cells , investigations were undertaken to determine whether inactivation of the receptor by microsatellite alteration might be involved in the progression of CML .
The combination diagnosis / treatment device should be useful in optimizing FV treatment and in refining and evaluating the efficacy of DEP in future clinical trials .
Suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid ( SAHA ) has been approved as a drug to treat cutaneous T cell lymphoma , and the combination of HDACi and other agents have been actively tested in many clinical trials .
Alteration of homeobox gene expression by N - ras transformation of PA - 1 human teratocarcinoma cells .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : Fifteen patients with MEN II A ( aged 4 - 24 years ) who had undergone prophylactic thyroidectomy since 1990 were included in the study .
Expanded polytetrafluoroethylene ( PTFE ) sheets were implanted adjacent to both superficial epigastric vascular pedicles of 63 rats distributed into 7 groups ( n = 7 ) that differed with respect to dose and timing of irradiation .
In the present study it was found that incubation of HepG2 cells with a low concentration of 3 - BrPA for a short period ( 150 microM for 30 min ) significantly affected both glycolysis and mitochondrial respiratory functions .
These cells , but not control cells , showed altered growth properties and anchorage - independent growth in soft agar .
Myocardial ischemia both acute and chronic has been clearly shown to stimulate angiogenesis in many experimental models .
The CD47 receptor did slightly increase with malignancy except for H3327 .
Together , these in vitro and in vivo studies are consistent with the concept that Ad vectors may provide a useful strategy for efficient local delivery of VEGF165 in the treatment of ischemic diseases .
These mutations may have functional consequences since they eliminate potential phosphorylation sites and may affect the tertiary structure of mature protein complexes .
Finally , DNase I footprint analysis with a segment of the promoter containing these elements reveals the binding of several nuclear proteins .
Ciprofloxacin mediated cell growth inhibition , S / G2 - M cell cycle arrest , and apoptosis in a human transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder cell line .
The increase in tumorigenicity and metastatic ability could be explained by the increase in Mr 72 , 000 type IV collagenase activity and angiogenesis attributed to the induction of IL - 8 after irradiation .
Increased MP activity has been correlated with the metastatic potential of many cancers , including breast cancer .
IL - 12 inhibition of endothelial cell functions and angiogenesis depends on lymphocyte - endothelial cell cross - talk .
Almost all patients respond to G - CSF with increased neutrophils , reduced infections , and improved survival .
Recent reports suggest a participation of matrix metalloproteinases ( MMP ) in tumour pericyte recruitment that is consistent with the effect of certain MMPs in the development of microvasculature in embryonic development and in in vitro models of vascular remodelling .
It is thought that radiation treatment inhibits neovascularization of recipient and / or graft tissues , and this may account in part for abnormalities in wound healing associated with radiation therapy .
Molecular characterization of angiogenic properties of human oral squamous cell carcinoma cells .
Double mutants developed oocytes and became sterile females that produced only aberrant embryos and showed elevated risk for invasive ovarian tumors .
Moreover , in vitro experiments demonstrated a direct effect of ethanol on the response to hypoxia in endothelial cells , as ethanol diminished nuclear hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha protein levels .
Mutation analysis of latent membrane protein 1 ( LMP1 ) in Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) - induced B - cell immortalization revealed two transformation effector sites , TES1 and TES2 .
Recently serum S - 100beta has shown promise as a tumour marker in melanoma ; however , its use as a prognostic marker in the advanced stage needs to be confirmed .
Bilateral central lymphadenectomy was performed in all patients in addition to thyroidectomy .
VEGF165 expressed by a replication - deficient recombinant adenovirus vector induces angiogenesis in vivo .
The role of platelet - derived endothelial cell growth factor / thymidine phosphorylase in tumor behavior .
Disabling mutations and deletions of p53 occur in 50 % of human tumours .
In addition , activation of transforming growth factor beta ( TGF - beta ) by TSP - 1 plays a crucial role in the regulation of tumor progression .
A 4 . 0 kb mRNA of the murine UFO homolog is expressed in a variety of different mouse tissues .
We have modelled multiple stages of malignant transformation of human endothelial cells ( ECs ) by overexpressing the catalytic subunit of human telomerase ( hTERT ) , together with SV40 T antigen ( SV40T ) and oncogenic N - ras .
Heparin preparations from a variety of sources stimulated capillary endothelial cell migration to the same degree but did not stimulate migration of several other cell types .
Hypoxic tumor cells distant from blood vessels were dramatically reoxygenated at 24 h postirradiation , and HIF - 1 activity increased as HIF - 1alpha accumulated in the reoxygenated regions .
The fact that some vitamins induce cell differentiation and / or growth inhibition in tumor cells in culture suggests that the use of these vitamins in cancer prevention has a cellular basis .
RESULTS : Insulin increased VEGF mRNA levels in the ganglion , inner nuclear , and RPE cell layers .
The antiproliferative effect of HAH - cortisol on endothelial cells appeared independent of the glucocorticoid activity of the steroid since HAH conjugated to 5 beta - pregnane - 3 alpha , 17 alpha , 21 - triol - 20 - one , a steroid lacking glucocorticoid or mineralocorticoid activity , was even more effective at inhibiting DNA synthesis by murine pulmonary capillary endothelial cells than was HAH - cortisol .
Careful selection of patients may be necessary before designing therapeutic strategies using either p53 or E2F - 1 as a therapeutic tools for glioma patients .
Homeostatic functions of the p53 tumor suppressor : regulation of energy metabolism and antioxidant defense .
Ba / F3 cells transformed to growth factor independence by various oncogenic PTKs ( TEL / JAK2 , TEL / TRKC , TEL / ABL , BCR / ABL , FLT3 - ITD , and H4 / PDGFbetaR ) show abundant expression of PIM - 1 and PIM - 2 .
These data thus indicate that the effects on hemostasis of the drugs examined can contribute only marginally to their antimetastatic action , since more pronounced effects on hemostasis have been shown to be required to significantly affect metastasis formation .
In our study , MOG was shown to specifically inhibit the growth of human leukemia cell lines and primary acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) blasts via induction of apoptosis , with the evidence of mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss , reactive oxygen species production , caspases activation and nuclear fragmentation .
Recent reports suggest that elevated levels of plasminogen activator inhibitor - 1 ( PAI - 1 ) may contribute to tumour progression .
Controlling lymph node metastasis is currently a key issue in cancer therapy .
Rise in lactate concentrations over baseline levels in the first 30 minutes of the glucose tolerance test were significantly higher in dogs with lymphoma ( P = 0 . 011 ) .
Human K562 cells , which express PHGPX , but not GPX , were also more sensitive to t - BuOOH in the Se - deficient ( K . Se ( - ) ) than Se - satisfied ( K . Se ( + ) ) condition .
Histological venous invasion ( p less than 0 . 01 ) and distant metastasis ( p less than 0 . 05 ) were significantly correlated with p53 protein expression .
Three vascular grades were defined with appraisal by eye and by Chalkley counting : high ( Chalkley score 7 - 12 ) , medium ( 5 - 6 ) , and low ( 2 - 4 ) .
Expression of ING4 is significantly reduced in gliomas as compared with normal human brain tissue , and the extent of reduction correlates with the progression from lower to higher grades of tumours .
A uniform left ventricular injury was produced in female rats using a cryoprobe .
Expression was evaluated in normal breast tissue and carcinoma , nuclei and cytoplasm , as intensity ( 0 to 3 + ) , and percentage of positive cells .
Notably , AglRhz inhibits insulin - like growth factor ( IGF ) - 1 - induced AP - 1 activity and cell transformation in JB6 Cl41 cells .
We demonstrate for the first time that ERK5 signaling not only is involved in EC survival and stress response but also controls migration and morphology of EC .
Because PIM - 1 is a STAT5 target gene , we analyzed the role of the family of PIM serine / threonine kinases ( PIM - 1 to PIM - 3 ) in PTK - mediated transformation of hematopoietic cells .
In animal or cell culture studies , the growth and spread of cancer can be slowed by many nutrients , food factors , herbal extracts , and well - tolerated , available drugs that are still rarely used in the clinical management of cancer , in part because they seem unlikely to constitute definitive therapies in themselves .
AIM : To determine the expression of HER2 and bradykinin B ( 1 ) receptors ( B ( 1 ) R ) in the two pathogenic models of gallbladder cancer : the metaplasia - dysplasia - carcinoma and the adenoma - carcinoma pathways .
Grape seed extract ( GSE ) , a widely used dietary supplement , is known to have antitumor activity .
Activation of the myc gene may play a role in transformation by promoting growth of the cells bearing the rearranged chromosomes .
These observations support that the activation of multiple signals could enhance apoptotic response and suggest the therapeutic interest of the TRAIL / camptothecin combination .
Hedgehog signaling : networking to nurture a promalignant tumor microenvironment .
Similar results were obtained with cell lines derived from malignant fibrous histiocytomas , leiomyosarcomas , and liposarcomas .
Genotypes of 155 patients with cervical cancer and 160 healthy control subjects were determined using polymerase chain reaction - based restriction fragment length polymorphism ( PCR - RFLP ) .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : c - erbB2 , evaluated by immunohistochemistry in 145 of 173 patients randomly assigned to 2 - year adjuvant tamoxifen or no further therapy , was considered overexpressed if greater than 10 % of the cells showed specific membrane staining .
All courses were evaluated for safety and 31 for efficacy .
The in vitro expression of FAK and its level of phosphorylation appear to be related to several physiological phenomena , including cell spreading , cell differentiation , cell locomotion and cell death .
METHODS : Thirty - six New Zealand white rabbits were evaluated in this study .
Matrix metalloproteinases can collectively cleave all components of the extracellular matrix , with the endogenous tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 regulating their activity .
Although 5 - FU is often used for the treatment of oral carcinoma , there has not been any investigation into the expression of these enzymes in metastatic lymph nodes or of their roles in the effectiveness of 5 - FU in treating lymph node - metastatic cancer .
An intradermal angiogenesis assay was used to demonstrate that a 4 - day treatment with vandetanib ( 50 mg / kg / day ) was able to significantly inhibit blood vessel growth induced by both parental and high VEGF - expressing tumor cell clones .
Ploidy analysis was carried out on 39 EOGCs and immunohistochemistry of CDC4 / FBXW7 and its substrates c - myc , c - jun , Notch and cyclin E was performed on 204 gastric carcinomas using tissue microarrays ( TMAs ) .
However , the frequency of the p . Val600Lys mutation was higher than in most other studies and comprised almost one - third of all BRAF mutations in our cohort ( 27 / 89 , 30 % ) .
The contribution of Harold F . Dvorak to the study of tumor angiogenesis and stroma generation mechanisms .
Consistent with a role for NF - kappaB in oncogenesis are observations that inhibition of NF - kappaB alone or in combination with cancer therapies leads to tumor cell death or growth inhibition .
Under normal conditions insulin regulates expression of hexokinase Type II isoenzyme , which is predominantly expressed in muscle .
However , mice treated with t - butanol , an alcohol not metabolized by alcohol dehydrogenase , exhibited no change in wound vascularity .
Consequently , cells were more rigid and show reduced motility .
The simian virus 40 ( SV40 ) large tumor ( T ) antigen is sufficient to transform cells in cultures and induce tumors in experimental animals .
METHOD : The intratumor microvessel density ( IMVD ) , apoptotic index ( AI ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression were detected by immunohistochemistry SABC and terminal uridine deoxynucleotidyl transferase mediated nick end labeling ( TUNEL ) methods in34 LSCC patients .
These results suggest that apoptosis caused by elevated expression of Fas is involved in chemoprevention by lactoferrin of colon carcinogenesis .
Nevertheless , using an miR - BHRF1 - 1 and miR - BHRF1 - 3 double mutant , we could directly assess and confirm the contribution of miR - BHRF1 - 2 to B - cell transformation .
Antibodies developed to human endosialin were used to investigate endosialin expression and function in human prenatal brain pericytes and pericytes residing in tumors .
For a video summary of this article , see the PaperFlick file available with the online Supplemental Data .
Insulin - like growth factor - I receptor - mediated vasculogenesis / angiogenesis in human lung development .
This study investigated the effects of dietary folate on the development of UC - associated colon cancer in the IL - 2 ( null ) x beta ( 2 ) m ( null ) mice .
PTEN promoter hypermethylation is a major epigenetic silencing mechanism leading to activation of angiogenesis in tumors .
The physiological significance of these observations are discussed .
In this model , UFT showed a strong angiogenesis - inhibitory effect , whereas 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) and doxifluridine were less effective .
Furthermore , gonadotropin - and / or estrogen - mediated maintenance of SEMA3 expression could control ovarian cancer angiogenesis and metastasis .
In the present study , a novel inhibitor of angiogenesis was synthesized by covalently linking a nonanticoagulating derivative of heparin , heparin adipic hydrazide ( HAH ) , by an acid - labile bond to the antiangiogenic steroid , cortisol .
The angiopoietin / Tie2 system has been identified as the second vascular - specific receptor tyrosine kinase system controlling vessel assembly , maturation , and quiescence .
mRNA expression levels of angiogenesis stimulators and inhibitors were determined by quantitative RT - PCR .
Such evidence indicates that MTSS1 as a multiple functional molecular player and has an important role in development , carcinogenesis and metastasis .
METHODS : Human fat tissue fragments from surgery were placed in 96 - well plates , embedded in fibrin thrombin clot and overlaid with cell culture media containing 20 % fetal bovine serum .
Our study reveals a novel link between HMGA2 and the regulation of human telomerase reverse transcriptase ( hTERT ) , the catalytic subunit of telomerase , which offers critical insight into how HMGA2 contributes to tumorigenesis .
In the high - level group the authors found typical DNA ladder eletrophoresis stripe .
In EC9706 cells , the mechanism of aspirin and nimesulide induced growth inhibition was a consequence of cell cycle arrest at the G ( 0 ) / G ( 1 ) check point .
These included 40 ( 56 % ) metastases from a primary lung carcinoma and 31 ( 44 % ) metastases from some nonpulmonary carcinoma .
CONCLUSION : MCT targeting significantly reduced the viability of U - 87 MG cells mediated by both apoptosis and necrosis .
Matrigel plug neovascularization assay revealed that systemic angiogenic activity was elevated after primary tumor removal ( tumor intact group , 1 . 61 + / - 0 . 21 g / dL ; tumor removed group , 4 . 92 + / - 0 . 35 g / dL ) .
Myb ' s ability to regulate c - myc ' s expression was also demonstrated in these cells , showing a mechanism through which the proto - oncogene c - myb can exert its oncogenic potential in myeloid lineage hematopoietic cells .
Expression of epidermal growth factor receptor , transforming growth factor - alpha and Ki - 67 in relationship to malignant transformation of pleomorphic adenoma .
Impaired coronary collateral vessel development in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy .
Expression of VEGF had a significantly positive correlation with IMVD ( r = 0 . 51 , P less than 0 . 01 ) .
Together , our results provide not only a novel insight into the mechanisms underlying anti - tumor activity of E1A , but also a rationale for the combined HDACi and E1A gene therapy in future clinical trials .
Diabetic mice , which typically show impaired postischemic muscular neovascularization and blood perfusion recovery , have these defects corrected by intramuscular gene transfer of a dominant negative mutant form of p75 ( NTR ) .
We will demonstrate here that the level of the natural ocular anti - angiogenic agent PEDF is inversely associated with proliferative retinopathy .
However , there was no difference in expression of TSP - 2 and CD36 mRNA in these samples .
Taken together , these results show for the first time that active RhoA is able to transform FRTL - 5 cells and that this effect is coupled to a loss of thyroid differentiation due to impaired TTF - 1 activity .
Dominant negative interference of transcription factor AP - 2 causes inhibition of ErbB - 3 expression and suppresses malignant cell growth .
Methotrexate ( MTX ) , a folic acid antagonist widely used for the treatment of a variety of tumors and inflammatory diseases , affects normal tissues that have a high rate of proliferation , including the hematopoietic cells of the bone marrow and the gastrointestinal mucosal cells .
Aberrantly activated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 ( Stat3 ) is implicated in the development of various human cancers .
It significantly prolongs median survival of patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) but the response is disease - stabilizing and cytostatic rather than one of tumor regression .
However , the role of IL - 8 in non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma ( NHL ) has not been fully determined .
Collectively , our results suggest the proinflammatory and essential role of IL - 17F to develop spontaneous intestinal tumorigenesis in Apc ( Min / + ) mice in the presence of IL - 17A .
Endosialin / TEM 1 / CD248 is a pericyte marker of embryonic and tumor neovascularization .
Our experiments demonstrate that insulin - like growth factor I indeed induces hexokinase gene expression in a concentration and time dependent manner in two cancer cell lines we studied .
PURPOSE : Tumor fibroblasts ( TF ) have been suggested to play an essential role in the complex process of tumor - stroma interactions and tumorigenesis .
Acad .
Immunohistochemistry examinations in the human surgical specimens have shown that a downregulation of TSP - 1 during the progression of cervical carcinogenesis was accompanied by an emergence in the upregulation of stroma markers , alpha - smooth muscle actin ( alpha - SMA ) and desmin .
Polyethylene glycol - superoxide dismutase ( PEG - SOD ) markedly inhibited both the increases in VEGF expression and the proliferative effects of 20 - HETE .
The authors found that patients in the high PE group survived for a significantly shorter time than those patients in the low PE group .
One additional event that appears to play a role in tumor progression is integration of HPV DNA into the host genome .
Hypoxia - induced gene expression in cancer cells has been linked to malignant transformation .
N - myc has proapoptotic functions , yet it acts as an oncogene in neuroblastoma .
Apoptosis , or programmed cell death , is thought to play a role in the dichotomous behavior of neuroblastoma .
Apoptotic cells were more numerous in RM - 9 - IL12 tumors : 10 . 3 % vs . 1 . 5 % in control ( P = 0 . 001 ) .
Tie1 is an orphan tyrosine kinase receptor expressed almost exclusively in endothelial cells and is required for normal vascular development and maintenance .
Bone marrow - derived mesenchymal stem cells ( BM - MSC ) have been demonstrated to be an attractive therapeutic cell source for tissue regeneration and repair .
Exposure of SKOV - 3 cells to paclitaxel or carboplatin along with 317615 2HCl resulted in cell survivals that reflected additivity of 317615 x 2HCl with paclitaxel and greater - than - additive cytotoxicity with carboplatin .
Thalidomide [ alpha - ( N - phthalimido ) - glutarimide ] is known to be a potent inhibitor of angiogenesis , but the mechanism of its inhibitory action remains unclear .
Evi - 1 associates with CtBP1 through one of the CtBP - binding consensus motifs within the region from amino acid 544 to 607 , and this association is required for the efficient inhibition of TGF - beta signaling .
KISS1 methylation and expression as tumor stratification biomarkers and clinical outcome prognosticators for bladder cancer patients .
Cells were perifused in the presence of 5 mM glucose , 0 . 5 mM glutamine or 5 mM glucose and 0 . 5 mM glutamine .
Gene array analysis identified significant increases in the expression of mammary epithelial growth factors Wisp2 and Igf - 1 in Tip30 ( - / - ) cells .
The Hedgehog pathway antagonist cyclopamine effectively reduced Shh - induced proliferation to control levels .
To analyze the structure - function relationship for the v - fos protein , we constructed in - frame insertion and deletion mutants of the v - fos gene carried by FBJ - MuSV , and expressed them in chicken primary cells using retrovirus vectors .
This review focuses on the application of therapeutic angiogenesis for treating ischemic muscle disease and includes a critical evaluation of the parameters and limitations of current procedures .
Furthermore , LMP1 cooperates with a p16 - insensitive CDK4 ( R24C ) oncogene in transforming MEF cells .
Here we investigated the effects of small molecule inhibitors ( SMIs ) designed to disrupt integrin alpha2 I or beta1 I - like domain function on angiogenesis .
Prior to this cellular outcome , FOXO3a is functionally activated and mediates a large - scale transcription program in response to this damage involving a significant modulation of 440 genes .
Groups 1 and 2 consisted of 48 patients without DR and 42 patients with PDR , respectively .
Tail vein injection of N - ( 1 - ( 2 , 3 - dioleoyloxy ) propyl ) - N , N , N - trimethylammonium chloride ( DOTAP ) / cholesterol lipoplexes resulted in increased lipoplex entrapment in hypervascularized liver but did not boost luciferase expression , suggesting that lipoplex delivery is not a sufficient condition for efficient organ lipofection .
Tumors greater than 35 mm3 treated with IR 24 hours previously or with TEMF had decreased blood vessels in the subcortex and more endothelial pseudopods projecting into hypoxic , HIF positive areas than tumors from the control group .
Interleukin - 2 administration was followed by a significant increase in total lymphocytes , CD4 + , CD8 + , CD16 + 56 + ( NK ) cells , IL - 6 , IL - 12 , and CRP ( from P < 0 . 04 to P < 0 . 000 ) but no change in IL - 10 and TGFbeta1 during clinical benefit .
In this study , we investigated the effects of spironolactone on the prevention of corneal allograft rejection in a MHC class I / II mismatch rat corneal transplant model .
The translocation of GR was induced by FA alone , DMI alone , and combination of both agents .
IGF - 1 - transfected cells demonstrated greater cell proliferation , stimulated angiogenesis , and decreased caspase - 3 activity after simulated ischemia and reperfusion ( P less than 0 . 05 for all groups compared with vector or cell controls ) .
Furthermore , we determined the ability of U - 995 to inhibiting tumor cell growth and metastasis .
We found positive Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 immunostaining in 44 . 6 % , 28 . 6 % , and 58 . 9 % of the studied primary tumors and in 63 . 6 % , 45 . 5 % , and 72 . 7 % of lymph node metastases , respectively .
Metastatic carcinoma of unknown primary origin is a perplexing but common problem , accounting for up to 10 % to 15 % of all solid tumors at presentation .
The MVD and Ki - 67 LI were higher , and the AI was lower in the SCC with VEGF / p53 coexpression than in those without the coexpression .
IL - 1Ra also improved islet vascularization , reduced fibrosis and ameliorated glycemia .
uPA and uPAR levels were not significantly associated with tumour staging or survival .
Additionally , glutathione depletion and extracellular signal - regulated kinase ( ERK ) inactivation was observed in EPOX - treated cells .
Sequencing of exons 5 through 8 of the p53 gene revealed no mutations , nor were mutations detected in the N - or K - ras protooncogenes in four of the carcinomas and their respective metastatic deposits .
To evaluate the effect of EPOX on the endothelial signaling pathway , we did immunoblotting , immunoprecipitation , and immunofluorescence analysis .
Daily i . v . injections of HAH - cortisol at doses causing no apparent toxicity retarded the growth of solid s . c .
The tumors were also serially transplantable into other mice .
HYPOTHESIS : We speculate that there is a burst of angiogenesis of distant dormant micrometastases after surgery in approximately 20 % of premenopausal node - positive patients .
These were pigmented , and maintained expression of tyrosinase , TRP - 1 , cytokeratin and SV40 Tag .
BAG - 1 regulates cellular growth , differentiation and survival through interactions with diverse proteins , including the vitamin D receptor ( VDR ) , a key regulator of keratinocyte growth and differentiation .
Furthermore , retention of CDK4 in these TA - like pituitary cells synergizes with loss of p27 ( Kip1 ) to induce pituitary adenocarcinomas .
He noted that wounds , like tumors , secrete VPF , causing blood vessels to leak plasma fibrinogen , which stimulates blood vessel growth and provides a matrix on which they can spread .
CONCLUSION : Exposure of clonal B lymphocytes from patients with CLL to simvastatin decreases viability significantly by the induction of apoptosis .
Brick1 ( Brk1 ) is the less - studied component of the Wave / Scar pathway involved in the branched nucleation of actin fibers .
There was a significant correlation ( P = 0 . 022 ) between survivin and bcl - x expression ; survivin and bcl - x tended to correlate with overall survival ( P = 0 . 072 and 0 . 075 , respectively ) , but not with disease - free survival ( P = 0 . 19 and 0 . 18 , respectively ) .
The present work supports and extends the finding of previous studies , since the results showed that the glucose metabolism depressed the oxidative processes in Ehrlich ascites tumor mitochondria , not only alone , but also in the presence of glutamine .
Here we report that CCL16 activates an angiogenic program in vascular endothelial cells by activating CCR1 .
We sought to test whether p53 could behave in a manner similar to known genes in a biological test system , and we demonstrate here that p53 can cooperate with the activated Ha - ras oncogene to transform normal embryonic cells .
By contrast , ovarian tumors displayed significantly higher levels of hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 where expression was observed in tumor and stromal cells .
The overall mutation rate of the MCR of the APC gene among 86 CRC cases was 12 . 8 per cent ( 11 of 86 ) .
BACKGROUND : Opticin is a recently discovered glycoprotein present predominantly in the vitreous humour .
In all cases , the somatostatin receptors were localized in veins , particularly in the smooth - muscle cell layer .
RESULTS : VEGF expression was observed in 58 . 3 % , and p53 protein expression was observed in 61 . 7 % of the 60 patients .
However , very little is known about the function of RASSF1C both in normal and transformed cells .
Kaplan - Meier survival curves showed a statistically significant worse prognosis for patients with high vascular grade , but no difference was observed between low and medium vascular grade .
Epithelial - mesenchymal transitions ( EMTs ) occur as key steps during embryonic morphogenesis , and are now implicated in the progression of primary tumors towards metastases .
These findings demonstrate that beclin 1 is a haplo - insufficient tumor - suppressor gene and provide genetic evidence that autophagy is a novel mechanism of cell - growth control and tumor suppression .
Using immunoblot analysis , we show that AdGFPFasL ( TET ) is capable of initiating the classic Fas - mediated apoptotic pathway in DU145 cells , which includes activation of caspases - 8 , - 3 , - 7 , and - 9 , BID cleavage , cytochrome c release from mitochondria , and PARP cleavage .
Cells of the highly metastatic lung - colonizing clone MTF7 . T35 . 3 , derived from the 13762NF cell line , were treated for 3 days with 0 . 1 , 1 , or 10 microM all - trans - RA , harvested , and seeded on [ 3H ] proline - labeled extracellular matrix deposited by cultured rat lung endothelial cells or on a film of purified [ 3H ] proline - labeled type IV collagen .
CONCLUSION : This angiogenesis assay based on human fat tissue uses three - dimensionally intact human tissue .
In order to better understand the coordinated regulation of cell - cell and cell - matrix interactions during malignant transformation , we have studied the expression of syndecan - 1 in malignant mammary tumor cells genetically manipulated for E - cadherin expression .
This protein is produced in large amounts by fibroblasts cultivated in vitro .
Ectopic localization of mitochondrial ATP synthase : a target for anti - angiogenesis intervention ?
Based on this observation , we generated the first transgenic mouse model with a targeted overexpression of Tsg101 in the developing mammary gland to test whether exogenous Tsg101 is capable of initiating tumorigenesis .
p53 does so through the induction of genes leading to growth arrest or apoptosis .
The v - Src - transformed MEFs deficient in SWAP - 70 were unable to grow in soft agar while those expressing SWAP70 readily formed colonies , suggesting that SWAP - 70 is required for anchorage independent growth of v - Src transformed MEFs .
Prior to the appearances of frank neoplasms , volumetric changes in DMBA only and radiation only groups were similar , while volume changes in DMBA + radiation groups increased slowly to a peak later than in other groups and then declined steadily to levels similar to the radiation only group .
In vitro studies , the results indicated that DATS induced morphological changes and induction of apoptosis in CT26 cells .
Over - expression of either rho gene was sufficient to confer anchorage - and serum - independent growth .
This work does not confirm reports that NSAID ' s have anti - edema activity and suggests that there may be no correlation between ' angiostatic ' and anti - edema activity in certain steroid compounds .
The angiogenic action of thrombin has been shown to be mediated by activation of the thrombin receptor .
These findings indicate that disparate mechanisms of enhancing or inhibiting apoptosis exist in myeloid leukemic cells related to environmental conditions , including HGF - regulated cellular synthesis of distinct proteins and mRNA .
The capacity of insulin to stimulate the VEGF promoter linked to a luciferase reporter gene was characterized in transient transfection assays .
We found that orally administered artemisinin inhibited lymph node and lung metastasis and prolonged survival without retarding tumor growth .
UFT , an anticancer agent that is composed of tegafur ( FT ) and uracil at a molar ratio of 1 : 4 , is widely used in clinical practice in Japan to treat cancer patients requiring a long - term chemotherapy , and it is associated with few side effects , if any .
Further , the overexpression of 14 - 3 - 3zeta correlated with histological grades , lymph node metastasis and poor clinical outcome .
In both growth states , PDBu caused loss of protein kinase C activity , which reflected a loss in protein mass as determined by immunoblotting with antiserum to protein kinase C .
This resulted in formation of tumors , which were pigmented and of epithelial origin .
It is considered that resection of the primary tumor induces activation of systemic angiogenesis and enhances progression of remote metastasis .
Moreover , in the presence of glucose , the malate - citrate cycle did not appear to play an important role in the glutaminolytic process .
Intensive insulin therapy may cause a transient worsening of retinopathy in patients with diabetes through increased retinal VEGF gene expression .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , fibroblast growth factor ( FGF ) , recombinant proteins and bone marrow stem cells are currently used therapeutic stimulators for angiogenesis .
c - myb is a frequent target of retroviral insertional mutagenesis in murine leukemia virus - induced myeloid leukemia .
RESULTS : The mean sVAP - 1 level for cancer patients was significantly higher relative to controls , and decreased with disease progression .
Coagulation function in patients with pancreatic carcinoma .
Increased TLX expression was observed in a number of glioma cells and glioma stem cells , and correlated with poor survival of patients with gliomas .
Delayed addition of GM - CSF , but not FBS , permitted partial rescue of the cells , inhibiting increasing rates of accumulation of fragmented DNA .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : The tissues were stained with monoclonal antibodies to EGFR , TGF - alpha and Ki - 67 .
We show that both substitution of glucose for pyruvate and treatment with 2 - deoxyglucose enhanced apoptosis induced by tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) - alpha , CD95 agonistic antibody , and TNF - related apoptosis - inducing ligand ( TRAIL ) .
To investigate this possibility , we studied the influence of bovine lactoferrin on Fas - mediated apoptosis with regard to expression of Fas , activation of caspase - 8 and caspase - 3 , and DNA fragmentation in the colon mucosa of AOM - treated rats .
We hypothesized that Erbb2 activation contributes to UV - induced skin tumorigenesis by suppressing cell cycle arrest .
In patients with resectable gastric cancer , the grade of infiltrating dendritic cells may be a suitable predictor of prognosis .
14 - 3 - 3zeta might be used as prognostic biomarkers for NSCLC .
UFT and its metabolites inhibit the angiogenesis induced by murine renal cell carcinoma , as determined by a dorsal air sac assay in mice .
Furthermore , we found that the potentiating effect of miR - BHRF1 - 2 on miR - BHRF1 - 3 synthesis can be reproduced with simple expression plasmids , provided that both miRNAs are processed from the same transcript .
Y705 phosphorylation is conventionally thought to be required for Stat3 signal - dependent activation and seems to play an essential role in some malignancies .
Thrombospondins , metallo proteases and thrombospondin receptors messenger RNA and protein expression in different tumour sublines of the Dunning prostate cancer model .
In the present study we examined the possibility that the revertant phenotype resulted from mutations that altered the expression or activities of the c - jun or junB proto - oncogenes .
EC9706 and EC109 cells were incubated with varying concentrations of aspirin and nimesulide , and the effects on cell proliferation and apoptosis were monitored by 3 - ( 4 , 5 - dimethyl - thiazol - 2yl ) - 2 , 5 - diphenyltetrazolium bromide and flow cytometry .
RESULTS : Overexpression of MDM2 by manual counts was seen in 44 % ( n = 47 ) of the patients .
METHODS : To evaluate antiangiogenic activity of cRGD - HL , we performed tests on endothelial cell adhesion and migration to vitronectin , tube formation , binding affinity to purified alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) integrin , and in vivo Matrigel plug assay .
Brk1 is required for cell proliferation and cell transformation by oncogenes .
There is comparatively less evidence to support the use of other treatment modalities for relief of symptoms in intermittent claudication , but there is considerable interest in therapeutic angiogenesis to promote new vessel formation and enhance collateralisation of the lower limb using recombinant growth factor proteins or gene transfer strategies .
The E7 oncoprotein of bovine papillomavirus type 1 ( BPV - 1 ) is required for the full transformation activity of the virus .
Effects of doxycycline on in vitro growth , migration , and gelatinase activity of breast carcinoma cells .
Rats that were irradiated twice ( single fractions at 0 and 24 hours after implantation ) did not show a significant decrease in the neovascularization of the irradiated implant compared with the contralateral control implant .
H4IIEC3 ( H4 ) , a differentiated rat hepatoma line and H5 , its dedifferentiated subclone , were investigated as proliferating spheroids and as implanted subcutaneous tumors in juvenile rats .
PURPOSE : Antiangiogenic therapy is considered as an effective strategy for controlling the growth and metastasis of tumors .
In both of the other two cases , the patterns of X - chromosome inactivation clearly demonstrated the presence of independent primary tumors .
Twenty - one patients underwent resection of the remnant stomach for RSC and were divided into two groups : the RSCB group consisted of 11 patients who underwent distal gastrectomy for benign disease and the RSCM group consisted of 10 patients who underwent gastrectomy for primary gastric cancer .
Molecular mechanisms of pituitary tumorigenesis were studied using Polymerase chain reaction - single stranded conformational polymorphism with DNA sequencing to identify potential mutations in the ras protooncogenes and the tumor suppressor gene p53 in invasive pituitary adenomas and carcinomas .
Two of the mutations included a G to C substitution at codon 12 , and a G to A substitution at codon 18 , resulting in a glycine to arginine , and an alanine to threonine change at these amino acids , respectively .
In support of this hypothesis , other treatments which act through different mechanisms to interfere with protein processing ( i . e . , tunicamycin , brefeldin A , and azetidine ) were also found to be much more toxic for VHL - deficient cells .
Syndecan - 1 expression in mammary epithelial tumor cells is E - cadherin - dependent .
Our initial investigations show that the naturally occurring organoselenium compound selenomethionine ( SM ) and the synthetic 1 , 4 - phenylenebis ( methylene ) selenocyanate ( p - XSC ) can inhibit human prostate cancer cell viability ; however , in contrast to SM , p - XSC is active at physiologically relevant doses .
To this end , we generated endothelial cell lines stably expressing vGPCR or key KSHV latently expressed proteins ( vCyclin , vFlip , and LANA1 ) .
Bone destruction is primarily mediated by osteoclastic bone resorption , and cancer cells stimulate the formation and activation of osteoclasts next to metastatic foci .
The excessive production of ROS can damage protein , lipids , nucleic acids , and matrix components .
We defined the role of c - Myc in cancer cell sensitivity to vinblastine ( VLB ) using human colon cancer cells : LoVo wild - type or transfected with a plasmid containing the human c - myc gene in antisense orientation ( LoVo - mycANS ) .
OPN promoted EC migration in vitro ; and VPF / VEGF induction of alphavbeta3 was accompanied by increased EC migration toward OPN .
These data confirm the importance of tissue architecture and polarity in malignant progression .
Anti - metastasis effects of gallic acid on gastric cancer cells involves inhibition of NF - kappaB activity and downregulation of PI3K / AKT / small GTPase signals .
Thirty - two genes were selected encoding molecules involved in endothelial cell activation , particularly fibrinolysis , vascular tone , OS , angiogenesis and also inflammation .
Although contaminating kinases were detectable in the immune complexes , at least the p53 molecules were phosphorylated in vitro in a more specific way .
Induction of Ets - 1 in endothelial cells during reendothelialization after denuding injury .
Low density lipoprotein receptor - related protein - 1 ( LRP - 1 ) is a catabolic receptor for extracellular matrix ( ECM ) structural proteins and for proteins that bind to ECM .
The role of SWAP - 70 in oncogenic transformation of mouse embryo fibroblasts ( MEFs ) by v - Src was examined by use of MEFs defective in SWAP - 70 .
PURPOSE : To describe visual acuity and angiographic outcomes of juxtafoveal choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) treated with photodynamic therapy and verteporfin ( PDT ) .
The induction of elevated p53 levels commenced at immediate - early times of the HCMV multiplication cycle ( 6 h postinfection ) and reached maximal levels by 24 h postinfection , before most of the HCMV DNA synthesis was initiated .
UK infusion prior to 5 - fluorouracil increased tissue concentration of antitumor agent .
E - cadherin is a Ca ( 2 + ) - dependent cell - cell adhesion molecule , which is mainly expressed in epithelial cells .
In neuronal cells , following Brn - 3a gene transfection and superexpression , an increase of 30 fold of the Bcl - 2 protein occurs , leading to apoptosis protection .
Clinically , patients with advanced cancer are usually in a hypercoagulable state with elevated fibrinogen , and fibrin deposition around tumor mass is a serious problem in cancer chemotherapy .
CONCLUSION : The transfection of LMP1 can increase the expression of MMP - 9 in CNE1 cells .
The reduced CK1delta activity did not affect early lesion formation during tumorigenesis , suggesting that impaired CK1delta activity reduces the probability for outgrowth of in situ carcinomas to invasive carcinomas .
Here , in order to characterize the role of the promoter that drives DSCR - 1s expression in mediating inducible expression in vivo and to determine the functional relevance of DSCR - 1s in inflammation , we targeted a DNA construct containing 1 . 7 kb of the human DSCR1s promoter coupled to the lacZ reporter to the hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase ( Hprt ) locus of mice .
In these settings TNF demonstrates potent and selective activity on the tumor vascular bed , which strongly improves tumor response .
The authors evaluated the association between MDM2 expression and local failure , distant metastasis ( DM ) , cause - specific mortality , and overall mortality in men treated in Radiation Therapy Oncology Group 8610 with radiotherapy , with or without androgen deprivation .
Our results indicate that alpha - MSH exerts modulatory effects on the activation of NF - kappa B and AP - 1 , and that it can regulate chemokine secretion in human dermal fibroblasts .
The mutant which retains only the central region of the v - fos protein ( Met111 - Ile206 ) have both activities , but the mutants which have deletions in this region , and one of the mutants that has a four amino acid insertion in it , lost both activities .
In conclusion , FVIIa binding to TF provided protection against apoptosis induced by growth factor deprivation , primarily through activation of PI3 - kinase / Akt pathway , and to a lesser extent , p44 / 42 MAPK pathway .
This phenomenon occurs at mast cell / tumor ratios which reflect the stoichiometry of host cell / tumor relationships in vivo .
Importantly , Bax and Bak were rapidly translocated to the mitochondria 30 min after betulin treatment .
Disturbances in expression of apoptosis - associated proteins take part in the development and progression of many human malignancies .
The members of an Epstein - Barr virus microRNA cluster cooperate to transform B lymphocytes .
RNA encoding glucokinase ( GK ) , the high - Km HK isozyme , was found only in cancer cells originating from liver and pancreas , which express GK under normal conditions .
Ex vivo cultures from invasive tumors or metastases produced cells that were homogeneously E - cadherin - positive and noninvasive in vitro .
The same result was obtained when the model contained ER status and ER - tamoxifen interaction .
In addition to altering metastasis , beta - catenin levels control tumor differentiation and regulate both MAPK / Erk and PI3K / Akt signaling .
Metastatic spread of malignant tumor appears to correlate with activation of the fibrolytic system .
METHODOLOGY / PRINCIPAL FINDINGS : Here , we propose a novel HDAC inhibitor , N - Hydroxy - 4 - ( 4 - phenylbutyryl - amino ) benzamide ( HTPB ) , as a potential chemotherapeutic drug for solid tumors .
Here , we demonstrate that HIF - 2alpha protein is selectively present in human fetal week 8 . 5 SNS paraganglia .
Similarly , the human INK4B locus encodes the p15 ( INK4B ) tumor suppressor and one alternatively spliced form , termed as p10 .
Rhizochalin is a two - headed sphingolipid - like compound isolated from the sponge Rhizochalina incrustata .
VEGF - A ( 165 ) , B , C , Flt - 1 , and KDR were analyzed .
CONCLUSION : Selective inhibition of iNOS by L - NIL inhibits angiogenesis in a hindlimb ischemic rat model .
Undoubtedly , blood vessels growth regulation is a vital aspect in health and disease .
Nrf2 heterodimerizes with small Maf protein to strongly activate transcription through the Maf recognition element ( MARE ) and Keap1 is an inhibitory regulator of Nrf2 .
Impaired CK1 delta activity attenuates SV40 - induced cellular transformation in vitro and mouse mammary carcinogenesis in vivo .
We quantified the expression of alpha - SMA as a marker of myofibroblasts in the invasive breast cancer .
Compared with BM - MSC , FM - MSC secreted a comparable amount of hepatocyte growth factor despite a small amount of vascular endothelial growth factor .
Up - regulation of lipogenesis by androgen is one of the most characteristic metabolic features of LNCaP prostate cancer cells .
To test this possibility , CD2 / F ( 1 ) mice were placed on synthetic diets containing 0 , 1 , or 2 % CLA for 6 weeks , before angiogenic challenge by s . c . injection with an angiogenic gel substrate ( Matrigel pellet assay ) .
Autotaxin ( ATX ) , a potent tumor motogen , augments invasive and metastatic potential of ras - transformed cells .
In the pituitary and pancreatic islets , phosphorylation of the retinoblastoma ( Rb ) protein at both CDK2 and CDK4 / 6 sites was increased in p18 ( - / - ) and Men1 ( + / - ) cells and was further increased in p18 ( - / - ) ; Men1 ( + / - ) cells .
Considering also that clusterin is downregulated during prostate cancer onset and progression , and that its upregulation has inhibited DNA synthesis and cell cycle progression of immortalized human prostate epithelial cells , we suggest that clusterin might be a new anti - oncogene in the prostate .
However , the pathophysiologic role of CD154 expressed by tumor cells remains unclear .
The interval between primary surgery and the appearance of gastric cancer in the remnant stomach was significantly shorter in the RSCM group than in the RSCB group .
In transgenic embryos , RPE cells proliferated in the anterior part of the eye and near the optic nerve .
[ Autologous bone marrow stem cell or peripheral blood endothelial progenitor cell therapy in patients with peripheral limb ischaemia ]
In addition , selected novel classes of antivascular therapies , including those targeting tumor endothelial cells and other components of the tumor vasculature , are summarized .
In control group , there was no vascular bundle implantation .
The neoplastic transformation of cultured rat liver epithelial cells by various means has consistently been associated with the development of resistance to the mito - inhibitory effect of transforming growth factor beta ( TGF - beta ) , suggesting that such phenotype plays a mechanistic role during the transformation of these cells .
RESULTS : ( 1 ) SREBP was activated during ECs migration .
Transfection with TSP - 1 and purified TSP - 1 added to NIH3T3 cells did not alter the protein levels of alpha - SMA and desmin but significantly inhibited matrix metalloprotease - 2 activity .
A reduction in the expression of collagen XII might have profound effects on the stability of the extracellular matrix of transformed cells .
However , the high mortality observed in the folate - deficient group precludes a definitive conclusion concerning the effect of folate deficiency on UC - associated colorectal carcinogenesis in this model .
High - risk human papillomaviruses ( HPVs ) are associated with carcinomas of the cervix and other genital tumors .
In all of these assays , equivalent treatments with a mixture of the HAH plus cortisol was significantly less effective .
RESULTS : 2ME2 exhibited antiproliferative and cytotoxic effects in a panel of five head and neck squamous cell carcinoma cell lines in the 0 . 5 to 10 micromol / L range , including induction of G2 - M blockade , caspase - 3 / 7 activation , and apoptosis at 48 hours .
The immune response to burn injury is immediate , prolonged , and severe .
Tumour angiogenesis is an important factor for tumour growth and metastasis .
In contrast , MMP - 9 expression was higher in stage III - IV NSCLC cases compared to stage I - II tumors ( p < 0 . 05 ) and higher in NSCLC cases with metastasis than those without metastasis ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
The hypothesis was that therapy with NH ( 2 ) - terminally truncated form of galectin - 3 ( galectin - 3C ) will be efficacious for reduction in tumor growth and for inhibition of metastases .
Whereas the ligands were increased in stages III and IV , the receptors were upregulated in stage III only .
Hemostasis and mechanism of action of selective antimetastatic drugs in mice bearing Lewis lung carcinoma .
Assays used to screen for BRAF mutations in the clinic should be robust enough to detect the p . Val600Lys mutation , as this may have therapeutic implications .
An exception is the adaptive immune system where lymphocytes utilize programmed DNA damage to effect antigen receptor diversification .
Furthermore , the formation of complexes containing KDR and NRP1 markedly increased 125I - VEGF165 binding to KDR .
Anti - IL - 6 therapy is a new strategy in the inflammatory autoimmune diseases and cancer .
Identification of latency - associated transcripts that map antisense to the ICP4 homolog gene of Marek ' s disease virus .
AQP1 was expressed in cell membranes and its expression was higher in cancer than that in normal tissues .
To define these roles more clearly , we examined the expression of DCC and its ligand , netrin - 1 , in the normal endometrium and in endometrial cancer .
We therefore set out to determine whether the few cells that express vGPCR in established tumors represent an appropriate therapeutic target for the treatment of patients with preexisting Kaposi ' s sarcoma .
In this location , it interacts with other proteins of the focal adhesion to activate intracellular signalling events associated with cell adhesion .
In this article we have focused on a role of IL - 6 as a prognostic factor in several malignancies such as colorectal cancer , breast cancer , gastric cancer and pancreatic cancer .
Immunodetection was performed with a specific anti - bFGF mouse monoclonal antibody that was found to react with recombinant human bFGF in Western blot analysis , and to specifically neutralize the mitogenic activity of bFGF on bovine vascular endothelial cells .
RESULTS : Loss of heterozygosity of CDC4 / FBXW7 occurred in 32 % of EOGCs , and correlated with loss of expression in 26 % .
There are currently no other means of treatment for this disorder , which has a high morbidity and mortality rate .
Predictive markers for anti - VEGF agents have not yet been identified and questions regarding the usefulness of bevacizumab in the adjuvant setting as well as its continued use beyond progression remain unanswered , in spite of negative data on bevacizumab in treating patients with adjuvant colon cancer .
In this study , we investigated the effects of caffeine on HIF - 1 protein accumulation and on VEGF and IL - 8 expression in the human colon cancer cell line HT29 under hypoxic conditions .
A multitude of VEGF - targeted inhibitory agents are currently being investigated for the treatment of cancer .
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS : Adipose tissue samples from visceral ( VAT ) and subcutaneous ( SAT ) sites , obtained from 36 obese patients ( mean BMI 46 . 5 kg / m ( 2 ) ) during bariatric surgery , were layered on chick chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) .
Unexpectedly , cells expressing both Ras and TEL grew as aggregates .
There is more and more information on the role of ARF in the regulation of a cell cycle , apoptosis , and autophagy .
Aberrant expression of Evi - 1 has been frequently found in myeloid leukemia , and is associated with a poor patient survival .
Inhibition by N - ( phosphonacetyl ) - L - aspartate of Ehrlich ascites tumour growth and glucose transport .
Incidence of BRAF p . Val600Glu and p . Val600Lys mutations in a consecutive series of 183 metastatic melanoma patients from a high incidence region .
Immunocytochemistry revealed that endosialin was present in the cytoplasmic body and in the elongated extensions essential to pericyte function .
The c - myc oncogene encodes for a transcriptional factor involved in many cellular processes such as proliferation , differentiation and apoptosis .
These results show that CX3CR1 - dependent accumulation of subretinal MCs evokes cardinal features of AMD .
Little is known about the metabolic adaptation of endothelial cells through such a transformation .
Our in vivo metastasis mouse model is useful for studying the efficacy of therapeutic regimes of ovarian cancer .
Regardless how death is inflicted , every cancer cell must die , be it fast or slow .
Given that AR - mediated gene regulation is enhanced by AR coregulators , inactivation of those coregulators is emerging as a promising therapy for prostate cancer ( PCa ) .
GSE could also inhibit the VEGF receptor / mitogen - activated protein kinase - mediated signaling pathway in endothelial cells .
RESULTS : The diagnostic sensitivity of this new immunocytochemical approach reached 100 % for the eight malignant mesotheliomas investigated .
Female double Smad1 Smad5 and triple Smad1 Smad5 Smad8 conditional knockout mice become infertile and develop metastatic granulosa cell tumors .
There is a highly significant correlation between the magnitude of changes in the number of cytochalasin B binding sites and the magnitude of changes in glucose uptake .
Integrin alphavbeta3 requirement for sustained mitogen - activated protein kinase activity during angiogenesis .
Platelets release several growth factors and bioactive agents that play a central role in development of not only thrombus but also of intimal thickening .
The paper reviews the data available in the literature on a role of the tumor suppressor ARF in oncogenesis and considers the structure of a gene encoding ARF protein .
Remarkably , lymphomas arising in Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) mice ( encoding p53R172P ) retain stable genomes .
It has long been noted , however , that hair follicle cycling is associated with prominent changes in skin perfusion , that the epithelial hair bulbs of anagen follicles display angiogenic properties , and that the follicular dermal papilla can produce angiogenic factors .
Thalidomide in concentrations from 0 . 1 microM to 10 microM did not change cell proliferation of 72 - h cell cultures .
Studies on the inactivation of these properties of EGF by specific cleavage of the molecule with CNBr or proteases suggest that an intact loop composed in part by amino acid residues 20 to 31 is essential for at least some functions .
Of the 14 tumors that expressed CD40 , all but 1 ( 93 % ) had either nodal or systemic metastasis at the time of diagnosis .
A characteristic of malignant cells is their capacity to invade their surrounding and to metastasize to distant organs .
Our data suggest for the first time that S727 phosphorylation is sufficient to activate Stat3 , thereby driving prostate tumorigenesis independent of Y705 phosphorylation .
However , we show here that VEGF , specifically through VEGFR2 , induces phosphorylation of two serine residues on PLCbeta3 , and this was confirmed in an ex vivo embryoid body model .
In this study , we address the mechanism by which VEGFR - 2 phosphorylation is regulated by dopamine .
High HER2 expression in specimens was additionally investigated by fluorescence in situ hybridization .
In addition , the pathogenesis of some human cancers is attributed to misregulation of TGFbeta function and SMAD2 or SMAD4 mutations .
Immunohistochemistry revealed that the Hedgehog receptor Patched was localized to the tumor stroma and that B16F0 cells expressed Shh peptide .
Retrospective case series of juxtafoveal choroidal neovascularization treated with photodynamic therapy with verteporfin .
However , a statistically significant correlation was found between the surface expression of CD40 and the metastatic spread of the tumor .
There was also an up - regulation of Bax , which altered the Bax : Bcl - 2 ratio , which may be responsible for mitochondrial depolarization reported to be involved prior to the induction of apoptosis .
Inhibitors of angiogenesis hold potential in the treatment of cancer and other diseases where the disease is caused or maintained by the inappropriate growth of blood vessels .
The experimental approach includes : estimation of mitochondrial NAD [ P ] + - dependent malic enzyme activity ; respiratory activity of freshly harvested or fasted cells , and of isolated mitochondria ; and determination of the metabolites involved in the glycolytic and glutaminolytic pathways .
This encourages the performance of further studies to analyse the potential impact of 123I - IMT SPET on the therapeutic management of patients with brain tumours .
A STAT3 - mediated metabolic switch is involved in tumour transformation and STAT3 addiction .
Prostate cancer dissemination is difficult to detect in the clinic , and few treatment options exist for patients with advanced - stage disease .
In down modulated growing cells , PDBu caused almost complete inhibition of EGF binding , whereas in down modulated stationary cells , minimal inhibition of EGF binding by PDBu was observed .
High levels of these angiogenic factors in heart disease also have not translated into clinically significant new vessel formation , as in accelerated cancer growth or proliferative retinopathy .
Samples were assayed for glucose , lactate , and insulin concentrations and compared statistically with ten control dogs of similar weight and age undergoing an identical dextrose challenge .
The induction occurs within 1 h from FGF - 2 treatment and is mediated by ERK1 / 2 pathway , which in turn stimulates expression of the early growth response - 1 ( Egr - 1 ) transcription factor .
Furthermore , cyclopamine reduced tumor blood vessel permeability to FITC labeled dextran while having no effect on normal blood vessels .
The anti - apoptotic protein c - FLIP ( cellular Flice - like inhibitory protein ) , which has been shown to inhibit Fas - mediated apoptosis at the DISC , was down - regulated following AdGFPFasL ( TET ) treatment prompting us to investigate its role in inhibiting CH - 11 - induced cell death .
Downregulation of E - cadherin occurred at the level of transcription or of mRNA stability .
To further analyze RhoA function in thyroid cell proliferation and differentiation patterns , we combined transient and stable transfection assays to express different mutant RhoA forms in FRTL - 5 cells .
With regard to differentiation , hypoxic cells lost their neuronal / neuroendocrine features and gained marker gene expression associated with an immature , neural crest - like phenotype .
It is concluded that curcumin inhibits the adhesion and invasion of MCF - 7 cells through down - regulating the protein expression of uPA via of NF - kappaB activation .
HGF constitutively produced VEGF and levels were significantly enhanced ( P less than 0 . 01 ) by stimulation with Ve and OMP from A . actinomycetemcomitans and P . gingivalis at concentrations of 10 microg / ml or higher .
Finally , Bcl - 2 is significantly increased in the neuroblastoma cells cultured in the conditioned media .
Thus , mutation of beclin 1 or other autophagy genes may contribute to the pathogenesis of human cancers .
CX3CR1 - dependent subretinal microglia cell accumulation is associated with cardinal features of age - related macular degeneration .
Immunohistochemical analysis revealed Fas - positive cells and apoptotic cells preferentially within the proximal colon region , clearly at the site of bovine lactoferrin - mediated tumor inhibition .
The angiogenic switch occurred in early stages of pre - malignant tumor formation , and tumor angiogenesis was significantly enhanced in TSP - 2 - deficient mice .
Interestingly , CDK4 - expressing cells , but not CDK2 - expressing cells , strongly synergize with lack of p27 ( Kip1 ) to generate pituitary carcinomas that appear with shortened latency and are drastically more aggressive than those arising in p27 ( - / - ) mice .
The expression of SREBP and Cdc42 were determined by Western blot and quantitative real - time PCR .
The purpose of this study was to try to understand why DU145 cells are resistant to CH - 11 and determine the signaling pathway utilized by AdGFPFasL ( TET ) to induce apoptosis in these Fas - resistant cells .
Serum vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) levels were measured using the enzyme - linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) kit .
BAG - 1L also potentiated transactivation of known vitamin - D - responsive gene promoters , osteocalcin and 24 - hydroxylase , and enhanced VDR - dependent transcription and protein expression of the keratinocyte differentiation marker , involucrin .
Transfection with hTERT alone , led to the immortalization of two out of three cultures of bone marrow - derived ECs ( BMECs ) .
PURPOSE : The aim of this study was to investigate the use of D2 - 40 for the detection of lymphovascular invasion ( LVI ) in node positive and negative early breast cancer .
This ultimately deprives VEGF receptors of an essential molecule required for promoting the disruption of endothelial cell - cell contacts and paracellular permeability .
Besides TGFbeta and RTK / Ras signaling , autocrine factors and Wnt - , Notch - , Hedgehog - and NF - kappaB - dependent pathways were found to contribute to EMT .
METHODS : PTEN promoter methylation was detected in surgical specimens of CCMs ( n = 69 ) by methylation - specific polymerase chain reaction .
Many observations in various animal models and humans support that the remodeling of preexisting collateral vessels is the mechanism of collateral artery formation .
Similar results were obtained with phVEGF121 , phVEGF165 , and phVEGF189 , which suggests that these isoforms are biologically equivalent with respect to in vivo angiogenesis .
Clinical studies have shown elevated serum IL - 6 concentrations in patients with endometrial cancer , non - small cell lung carcinoma , colorectal cancer , renal cell carcinoma , breast and ovarian cancer .
Parental NIH 3T3 - derived cells had both 72 kDa and 92 kDa gelatinase activities , and LTA - derived cells had either aberrantly sized approximately 90 kDa activity alone or neither enzyme activity .
Similarly to other members of this family , Id - 1 is involved in the repression of cell differentiation and activation of cell growth .
Correlation analysis was performed between blood vessel parameters and the amount of new bone formed during distraction .
Several factors contribute to the start of intimal thickening .
The contribution of ischemia to arteriogenesis is still unclear , but arteriogenesis clearly can occur in the absence of any significant ischemia .
Moreover , HTPB inhibited activity of MMP2 and MMP9 , reduced integrin - beta1 / focal adhesion complex formation and decreased pericellular poly - fibronectin assemblies .
Therefore , we used a targeted mutant mouse model to test the hypothesis that monoallelic deletion of beclin 1 promotes tumorigenesis .
Furthermore , slow release administration by subcutaneous injection using an Alzet osmotic pump of a potent and bio - stable T140 analog , 4F - benzoyl - TN14003 , gave a partial , but statistically significant ( P < / = 0 . 05 ( t - test ) ) reduction in pulmonary metastasis of MDA - MB - 231 in SCID mice , even though no attempt was made to inhibit other important targets such as CCR7 .
Smooth muscle - rich tissues respond to mechanical overload by an adaptive hypertrophic growth combined with activation of angiogenesis , which potentiates their mechanical overload - bearing capabilities .
These studies suggest that Hedgehog signaling regulates melanoma related vascular formation and function .
Highly metastatic tumors with beta - catenin stabilization are very similar to a subset of human melanomas .
DNA damage induces a novel p53 - survivin signaling pathway regulating cell cycle and apoptosis in acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells .
Pharmacological inhibition of autophagic flux by chloroquine increased apoptosis and decreased cell viability in hepatoma cells .
TRADD domain of Epstein - Barr virus transforming protein LMP1 is essential for inducing immortalization and suppressing senescence of primary rodent fibroblasts .
Newly formed bone densities were also found to be higher in these 2 groups .
CONCLUSION : The majority ( 81 % ) of breast carcinomas show survivin expression which correlates with bcl - x , another antiapoptotic marker , and both markers tend to correlate with prognosis .
CD154 , but not CD40 expression , significantly correlated with tumor stage .
Cytokines and growth factors induce tyrosine phosphorylation of signal transducers and activators of transcription ( STATs ) that directly activate gene expression .
Platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule ( PECAM ) - 1 has been previously implicated in endothelial cell migration ; additionally , anti - PECAM - 1 antibodies have been shown to inhibit in vivo angiogenesis .
Metastasis and tumor angiogenesis are invasive phenomena and share many common properties at the physiological level and some similarities at the molecular level .
Angiotensin II ( Ang II ) is a potent vasoconstrictor that increases concomitant with sFlt - 1 during pregnancy .
Electrical stimulation ( ES ) has been recommended as a adjunctive therapy , however optimal treatment paradigms have not been established .
Different antiangiogenic therapeutics have been developed to improve tumor control through vascular - targeting agents ( VTA ) .
Here we show that angiogenesis is severely impaired in PSMA - null animals and that this angiogenic defect occurs at the level of endothelial cell invasion through the extracellular matrix barrier .
Angiostatin inhibits both ATP synthesis and ATP hydrolysis ( Moser et al . , 2001 ) and interferes with intracellular pH regulation ( Wahl and Grant , 2002 ; Wahl et al . , 2002 ) .
PTTG induced S100A4 and galectin - 1 mRNA and protein expression as assessed by Western blot and reverse transcription - PCR .
More recent data have demonstrated the existence of two human nm23 gene homologues , nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 , and have shown that deletion of nm23 - H1 alleles occurs in some colon carcinomas associated with poor prognosis .
Together these findings establish Wnt signaling as a metastasis regulator in melanoma .
Excluding N - stage , vascular grade was the only independent prognostic factor ( P = 0 . 007 ) .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) in seizures : a double - edged sword .
Tissue reaction of TET epithelial scaffolds immersed with the medium was evaluated on the chick embryo chorioallantoic membrane .
METHODOLOGY AND RESULTS : In this study , we demonstrate the molecular mechanism of M - CSF - induced VEGF production .
Of all the secretory products of mast cells tested , only heparin stimulated capillary endothelial cell migration in vitro .
These proteins are mainly produced by specific integral parts of the viral genome , the oncogenes .
The rationale was that the heparin derivative , which binds to sulfated polyanion receptors on endothelial cells , should concentrate the steroid on the surface of vascular endothelial cells .
20 - Hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid ( 20 - HETE ) is formed by the omega - hydroxylation of arachidonic acid by cytochrome P450 4A and 4F enzymes , and it induces angiogenic responses in vivo .
In this study , we used two inflammatory agents , IL - 1beta and phorbol myristic acetate , to activate PKC isozymes and specific inhibitors of PKCalpha ( Go6976 ) and PKCbeta ( hispidin ) to distinguish how each of these isoform ( s ) controls angiogenesis , wound healing , and permeability .
Antiangiogenesis therapy might have a role in reducing regional metastasis .
Using human neuroblastoma cell line , SK - N - MC , we found that treatment of these cells with FGF - 2 resulted in early induction of both Id - 1 mRNA and protein .
RESULTS : PCR and chimeric BMP - 2 and BMP - 4 luciferase assays demonstrate that NF - kappaB confers robust and selective activation of BMP - 2 in p65 overexpressing or rhTNF - alpha - stimulated PC cells .
In uremic patients , NOS activity is positively correlated with the duration of PD .
Cancer cells secrete soluble factors which can induce proliferation and migration of capillary endothelial cells .
RESULTS : In this article , we report the effects of altering RASSF1C expression in human breast cancer cells .
The UV - irradiated cells demonstrated enhanced tumorigenicity and metastatic potential in nude mice .
Previous work has shown that a rabbit anti - VCSA serum lyses specifically , in the presence of complement , 51Cr - labelled RSV - transformed cells from different animal species .
The p53 - dependent and p - 53 - independent functions of this protein are under many studies .
Sunitinib is an oral multitargeted receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor with antiangiogenic and antitumor activity that mainly targets vascular endothelial growth factor receptors ( VEGFRs ) .
Therefore , we confirmed the key findings by replicating these experiments in human neuroblastoma SK - N - SH cells .
These studies support a role of both systems in adipogenesis and obesity ; the role of specific members of these families , however , remains to be determined .
These properties allow the angiogenic switch to be evaluated in an in vitro setting .
CONCLUSION : We present initial results demonstrating anti - inflammatory effects of spironolactone .
Moreover , we showed that combination of E1A gene therapy and SAHA showed high therapeutic efficacy with low toxicity in vivo ovarian and breast xenograft models .
In addition , we showed that paclitaxel downregulated the phosphorylation of Akt in both HeLa and CaSki cells .
For distraction of the human mandible in elderly patients , a distraction rate of 0 . 5 mm / day seems beneficial .
In recent years the family of ADAM proteases has been ascribed important roles in these processes .
The primary site of nucleic acid synthesis , which was blocked by 3 - chloromethylthiochromone , was at orotidine monophosphate decarboxylase in the primidine pathway .
The WNT / TCF target genes HOXB9 and LEF1 are identified as mediators of chemotactic invasion and colony outgrowth .
Results were compared to findings in a control group .
Colon cancer overexpresses insulin - like growth factor 1 ( IGF1 ) and insulin - like growth factor 1 receptor ( IGF1 - R ) , as compared with normal or adenomatous mucosa , and it has been postulated that colorectal cancer cells depend on the IGF1 / IGF1 - R pathway for their growth and progression .
The A431 cells exhibited typical in vitro cell adhesion to the endothelial F - 2 cells .
Curcumin ( 1 , 7 - bis ( 4 - hydroxy - 3 - methoxyphenyl ) - 1 , 6 - heptadiene - 3 , 5 - dione ) , is extracted from the plant Curcuma longa .
Abnormal expression of beta - catenin was significantly correlated with poor differentiation and lymph node metastasis .
To evaluate the role of VEGF - C in lymph node metastasis , we developed an animal model by using an endometrial cancer cell line , HEC1A .
METHODS : We studied VEGF expression of 85 CML patients ( median age 50 years , range 16 - 75 years ) .
Recombinant human prothrombin kringle - 2 inhibits B16F10 melanoma metastasis through inhibition of neovascularization and reduction of matrix metalloproteinase expression .
Our results suggest heterogeneity in angiogenic activity and vessel maturation of CC - RCC , to a large extent linked to nuclear grade , and , with probable therapeutic implications .
The induction of Ets - 1 in ECs after denudation was regulated transcriptionally , and humeral factors released from injured ECs might not be responsible .
Fibroblast growth factor 2 promotes microvessel formation from mouse embryonic aorta .
We also show that mouse p10 is able to inhibit foci formation and anchorage - independent growth in wild - type mouse embryonic fibroblasts , and that these antitransforming properties of mouse p10 are also p53 - dependent .
We show here that p10 , which arises from the use of an alternative splice donor site within intron 1 , is conserved in the mouse genome and is widely expressed in mouse tissues .
Immune complex kinase assays in the simian virus 40 system were performed by incubation of immunoprecipitates containing tumor antigens with [ gamma - 32P ] ATP , followed by analysis of any phosphoacceptor proteins .
The aim of this study is to compare behavior and tissue response between two new polyester prostheses and a commonly used polypropylene ( PP ) mesh .
Forced expression of SEMA3F , but not SEMA3B in ovarian cancer cells , significantly inhibited endothelial cell tube formation .
One possibility is that the gross chromosomal alterations frequently observed in HCC DNA at the site of HBV integration may alter the expression of important nearby cellular genes .
In the present study this region is shown to contain a gene encoding a protein of 40 kilodaltons in HTLV - I and 37 kilodaltons in HTLV - II .
In CX3CR1 - deficient mice , MCs accumulated subretinally with age and albino background and after laser impact preceding retinal degeneration .
In addition , we found down - regulation of cyclin B , cyclin E , and dephosphorylation of cdk2 in ciprofloxacin - treated bladder tumor cells .
At the time of brain biopsy , the primary site of tumor origin was known in 45 cases and unknown in 30 cases .
Our study reveals a hitherto unrecognized link between p53 and IFN - alpha / beta in tumour suppression and antiviral immunity , which may have therapeutic implications .
H4 cells formed tight , round spheroids whereas H5 cells formed loose , grape - like structures .
[ Treatment of the diabetic foot by hyperbaric oxygen ]
In the face fo the fatal outcome , new approaches to the therapy have been established .
Curcumin , which is a widely used dietary pigment and spice , has been demonstrated to be an effective inhibitor of tumor promotion in mouse skin carcinogenesis .
The role of Hes genes in intestinal development , homeostasis and tumor formation .
Our data suggest that KISS1 and MMP - 9 may serve as potential prognostic and therapeutic markers in lung cancer .
In conclusion , the metastasis from TRP - 1 / Tag RPE tumors towards spleen and lymph nodes serves as potential tool to investigate biology and metastasis of tumors derived from the pigment epithelium .
Most of the studies focusing on the mechanisms of p53 activity have been performed in cultured cells upon treatment with well - established p53 - activating inputs , such as high doses of radiations , DNA - damaging drugs and activated oncogenes .
METHODS : Patients diagnosed with chronic CSC , with clinical evidence of activity and treated with Photodynamic Therapy , are included in this report .
RESULTS : SPARC expression was mainly in the stromal cells surrounding the colon cancer , and was significant difference in those tissues with the lymph node metastasis and differentiation degree of tumor .
Highly metastatic IV Cl 1 cells expressed approximately 5 fold lower levels of protein encoded by NME genes than non - metastatic IV Cl 3 cells .
CONCLUSIONS : PLGA microspheres with an open porous structure allowed significant amount of heparin immobilization and bFGF loading .
Clear cell renal cell carcinoma ( CC - RCC ) is a highly vascularised tumour and is therefore an attractive disease to study angiogenesis and to test novel angiogenesis inhibitors in early clinical development .
RESULTS : Bevacizumab treatment was followed by reductions in retinal hemorrhage , exudation , and edema .
The differential regulation of human telomerase reverse transcriptase and vascular endothelial growth factor may contribute to the clinically more aggressive behavior of p63 - positive breast carcinomas .
Our previous studies mapped PEDF antiangiogenic and prosurvival activities to distinct epitopes .
VEGF - targeted therapy : therapeutic potential and recent advances .
Instead , a translational regulation is suggested , since syndecan - 1 core protein synthesis was E - cadherin dependent .
In addition , we found an increase of angiogenesis and HIF - 1alpha expression in TB4 - transgenic ( Tg ) mice as compared to wildtype mice .
In addition , this study mechanistically implicates IRSp53 in the signaling nexus between activated Cdc42 and Mena , both of which have previously been shown to be involved with Robo4 signaling in endothelial cells .
hTERT activity is associated with nodal metastases and cellular proliferation .
Therefore , to understand their role in tumor invasion , it is necessary to evaluate them collectively .
CONCLUSIONS : The level of fibrinogen in patients with pancreatic carcinoma was elevated .
The role of the pro - inflammatory peptide , LL - 37 , and its pro - form , human cationic antimicrobial protein 18 ( hCAP - 18 ) , in cancer development and progression is poorly understood .
No other structural changes in serum were observed for cholesterol - based lipoplexes .
METHODS : In this study , we screened the expression profile of AQP0 - 12 in breast cancer tissues and corresponding normal tissues by RT - PCR , Western blotting and immunohistochemistry .
Dose - and time - dependent effects of doxorubicin on cytotoxicity , cell cycle and apoptotic cell death in human colon cancer cells .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : Using a custom microarray , we analyzed 72 primary PETs , seven matched metastases , and 10 normal pancreatic samples .
Angiostatin was first discovered as a plasminogen fragment with antitumor / antiangiogenic property .
RESULTS : No correlation was found between tumor prognosis and EGFR , ICAM - 1 or Fas .
Enhancement of docetaxel - induced cytotoxicity and apoptosis by all - trans retinoic acid ( ATRA ) through downregulation of survivin ( BIRC5 ) , MCL - 1 and LTbeta - R in hormone - and drug resistant prostate cancer cell line , DU - 145 .
Suppression of lung tumor growth and metastasis in mice by adeno - associated virus - mediated expression of vasostatin .
We demonstrate here that a transcript is initiated within the U3 region and that its presence correlates with the trans - activating activity .
Increased NOS activity is mediated solely by Ca ( 2 + ) - dependent NOS and , as shown by immunoblotting , an upregulation of endothelial NOS .
The activated PI3K ( phosphoinositide 3 - kinase ) / Akt signalling pathway in LNCaP cells contributes to the phosphorylation of PFKFB2 at Ser466 and Ser483 , resulting in the constitutive activation of PFK - 2 ( 6 - phosphofructo - 2 - kinase ) activity .
Thus stage specific duality of function is the emerging paradigm for the role of TGFbeta1 in cancer .
RNA interference targeting Met in these tumor cells resulted in a significant delay in tumor growth in vivo compared with the control cells .
Nontumorigenic , immortalized keratinocytes cell line ( 3PC ) , papilloma ( MT1 / 2 ) , and squamous cell carcinoma ( Ca3 / 7 ) cell lines were initially used to study the cell growth inhibition by DMI .
CONCLUSION : Our results show the effectiveness of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS as an angiogenesis inhibitor in suppressing tumor growth during different stages of tumor progression , validating the application of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS gene therapy in treatment against lung cancer .
2G7 transiently inhibited growth of established MDA - 231 subcutaneous tumors .
Vimentin expression , growth fractions ( GF ) , and estrogen receptor ( ER ) levels were determined for 90 untreated primary breast carcinomas .
To show that transcriptional activation of cyclin D1 is causally involved in the generation of B - cell neoplasia we have generated transgenic mice that carry a cyclin D1 gene under the transcriptional control of the E mu element .
CD40 activation by CD154 may trigger diverse cellular responses , ranging from proliferation and differentiation to growth suppression and cell death , in normal and malignant cells .
These data indicate that artemisinin may be useful for the prevention of lymph node metastasis by downregulating VEGF - C and reducing tumor lymphangiogenesis .
We hypothesize that neuroblastoma cells will interact with host tissues to release mediators that affect apoptosis .
N - myc overrode the metabolic protection provided by Bcl - 2 - induced oxidative phosphorylation by reestablishing the glycolytic phenotype and attenuated the antiapoptotic effect of Bcl - 2 during metabolic stress .
When goldfish erythrophores isolated from the skin by tissue digestion and centrifugation in a Percoll density gradient were transfected in a monolayer - culture with v - Ha - ras or v - src oncogene either singly or in combination with v - myc by means of calcium phosphate - DNA co - precipitation , there appeared a certain number of transformants manifesting a chromatoblast - like profile and tumorous phenotypes as seen in the capability for unlimited growth , and piling - up in a monolayer - culture or colony formation in semi - solid soft agar .
HBO is useful in chronic nonhealing wounds of the diabetic foot and of the diabetic foot with impending amputation .
Our experimental data confirm previous studies showing the in vitro cell growth inhibition of the transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder cell line HTB9 and further showed the induction of cell cycle arrest at the S / G2 - M checkpoints .
METHODS : We assessed the role of CDC4 / FBXW7 in gastric cancer , through loss of heterozygosity ( LOH ) and multiplex ligation - dependent probe amplification ( MLPA ) on 47 flow - sorted gastric carcinomas including early - onset gastric cancers ( EOGC ) and xenografted conventional gastric carcinomas .
Multiple proteins involved in metastasis and the cytoskeletal reorganization signal pathway , including Ras , Cdc42 , Rac1 , RhoA , RhoB , PI3K and p38MAPK , were also inhibited by GA .
The tree / fruit can be divided into several anatomical compartments : ( 1 ) seed , ( 2 ) juice , ( 3 ) peel , ( 4 ) leaf , ( 5 ) flower , ( 6 ) bark , and ( 7 ) roots , each of which has interesting pharmacologic activity .
PMN - triggered angiogenesis is also blocked by both local injection and daily i . p . administration of the Hyp salt in an interleukin - 8 - induced murine model .
BACKGROUND & # 38 ; OBJECTIVE : It has been proved that Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) latent membrane protein 1 ( EBV - LMP1 ) can induce the expression of matrix metalloproteinase - 9 ( MMP - 9 ) .
Elevated c - src expression with angiotensin system inhibition may act to enhance intimal wound closure and to reduce luminal thrombogenicity in vivo .
In conclusion , HAH - cortisol represents the prototype of a new class of angiogenesis inhibitors for the treatment of cancer and other angiogenic diseases .
Inhibition of Akt , however , does not fully attenuate p - XSC - mediated downregulation of AR activity , suggesting that inhibition of AR signaling by p - XSC does not occur solely through alterations in the phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase / Akt survival pathway .
A Whipple procedure led to a complete resolution of these symptoms and a return of an elevated stomatostatin level to normal .
Platelets , therefore , may represent a potential target for therapeutic intervention in human ovarian cancer .
[ A case report of advanced gastric cancer responding to TS - 1 , a novel oral fluorouracil derivative ] .
RESULTS : Both wild - type and mutant PTEN can upregulate the expression of PTEN gene dramatically ; however , it is wild - type PTEN not phosphatase - inactive PTEN that can induce apoptosis and decrease cell migration , invasion and proliferation in ovarian cancer cells .
The mechanism proposed is a stimulation of angiogenesis for distant dormant micrometastases .
Proof of principle of the combined diagnosis / treatment system design for performing dye - enhanced photocoagulation ( DEP ) in the clinical setting and determination of the minimum DEP laser energy needed to close CNV FVs was made in 11 AMD patients requiring treatment of CNV , but for whom other treatment was not appropriate .
In vitro studies found that exposure to Cum - OOH reduced the level of glutathione ( GSH ) in mouse epidermal cells ( JB6 P + ) and caused the induction of AP - 1 .
Though less efficient in energy production , it ensures continuous supply of energy and phosphometabolites for biosynthesis enabling metastatic and less vascularized cancer cells to proliferate even under hypoxic conditions .
Based on the models assessed herein , we infer that that FH deficiency compels cells to adopt an early , reversible , and progressive protumorigenic metabolic milieu that is reminiscent of that driving the Warburg effect .
The aim of the study was to investigate the potential influence of thalidomide on the several steps of angiogenesis , using in vitro models .
In 4 weeks after surgery , angiogenesis of test group reached to peak .
However , treating EU - 6 with anti - survivin antisense resensitized these cells to doxorubicin , resulting in apoptosis .
Nicked { beta } 2 - glycoprotein I binds angiostatin 4 . 5 ( plasminogen kringle 1 - 5 ) and attenuates its antiangiogenic property .
Previous studies showed that gammaIFN decreases metastatic hepatic tumor growth by stimulating Kupffer cells ( KC ) .
Eighteen patients with SRNV refusing radiotherapy served as a control group and were matched with 18 irradiated patients .
Thus , we herein report a novel , efficient method for identifying VEGFR - 2 kinase inhibitors and introduce one , TKI - 31 , that may prove to be a useful new angiogenesis inhibitor .
METHODS : Grafted animals for corneal survival analysis were assigned to receive either spironolactone suspension ( orally , 100 mg / kg / day , n = 7 ) , phosphate - buffered saline ( PBS , orally , same volume as spironolactone , n = 9 ) or remained untreated ( n = 16 ) .
Consistently , it was found that MOG rapidly decreased the intracellular glutathione ( GSH ) content in a dose - dependent manner and the significance of GSH depletion in MOG - induced apoptosis was further supported by the protective effects of tert - butylhydroquinone ( tBHQ ) and the facilitative effects of DL - buthionine ( S , R ) - sulfoximine ( BSO ) .
Age - related impaired wound healing leads to substantial morbidity and mortality along with a large financial burden to health services .
Six edentulous patients ( aged 60 + / - 9 years ) with a severely atrophic mandible underwent bone augmentation with distraction osteogenesis .
Compared with the control cells , a desensitization of the response was observed in cells transformed by the overexpression of N - , Ha - , or Ki - ras genes .
The optimal duration of chemotherapy in patients with early and metastatic colorectal cancer is unclear .
Receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) analysis gave 0 . 83 and 0 . 43 ROC area values for urine IL - 8 / Cr and serum IL - 8 , respectively .
Among them , 29 were gradually up - regulated whereas 17 were down - regulated with increasing metastatic potential .
Hox 1 . 4 and Hox 1 . 3 , genes abundantly induced in nontransformed clones after 3 days of RA treatment , are expressed in N - ras - transformed cells only after 10 days of RA treatment .
Our laboratory has provided evidence that thrombin activates angiogenesis , a process which is essential in tumor growth and metastasis .
We identified dynein light chain 1 ( DLC1 ) as a physiologic substrate of p21 - activated kinase 1 ( Pak1 ) .
We therefore hypothesized that ANG II could be a mediator between homeostatic changes within the vascular perfusion bed and growth factor - driven angiogenesis .
In a multivariate analysis D2 - 40 + was the strongest predictor for ALNM with an odds ratio of 3 . 489 and a P - value of P = 0 . 0003 , followed only by T - stage and grading with odds ratios of 3 . 167 and 1 . 953 and P - values P = 0 . 0003 and P = 0 . 0352 .
Prospective and retrospective case - controlled experimental designs are not suitable for testing the above hypothesis .
While TSP - 2 deficiency did not affect tumor differentiation or proliferation , tumor cell apoptosis was significantly reduced .
The regulation of cell survival functions by Pak1 - DLC1 interaction represents a novel mechanism by which a signaling kinase might regulate the cancerous phenotypes .
Recently , we reported candidate target genes of Evi - 1 shared in HSCs and leukemic cells using gene expression profiling analysis .
Furthermore , E7 mutant proteins impaired in their ability to bind p600 were transformation defective .
The dominant negative mutant of Rac1 completely inhibited ephrin - B1 - induced membrane ruffling and focal complex assembly .
Selenoperoxidase - dependent glutathione cycle activity in peroxide - challenged leukemia cells .
The purpose of this study was to immunohistochemically investigate the correlation between the desmoplastic reaction and the clinicopathology of invasive breast cancer .
The biological effect of the perfluorocarbon - based artificial oxygen carrier ( Oxygent ) was investigated in tissue - engineered trachea ( TET ) construction .
Oncogenic epidermal growth factor receptor mutants with tandem duplication : gene structure and effects on receptor function .
In this review , the role of TSH - R gene alterations in benign and malignant thyroid neoplasia is examined .
Thus , 5T4 molecules can deliver signals through both the extracellular and intracellular domains , and the resultant effects are consistent with a role for 5T4 molecules in invasion processes .
The main purpose of the present investigation was to study the effect of the homologous series of 4 - alkylmorpholine N - oxides on ATP - producing processes in Ehrlich ascites and L1210 murine leukaemia cells .
The epithelioid cells were entirely supported by proliferated capillaries and arteries together with collagenous stroma .
However , development of consumption coagulopathy characterized by progression from hypercoagulable state to disseminated intravascular coagulation has also been found in several cases .
ADAM - 9 is expressed in human melanoma at the tumor - stroma border where direct or indirect interactions between tumor cells and fibroblasts occur .
Analysis of molecular aberrations of Wnt pathway gladiators in colorectal cancer in the Kashmiri population .
Prevention of hepatic tumor metastases in rats with herpes viral vaccines and gamma - interferon .
It is interesting that certain components of neutrophil cytotoxic arsenal ( ROS , cytokines , specific enzymes ) participate both in antitumoral defenses of an organism and protumoral activity .
HSP27 expression was positive staining ( + ) in 20 ( 50 % ) , weak or negative staining ( - ) in 20 ( 50 % ) of total 40 cases .
These data suggest that magnolol promoted apoptosis probably by alleviating the inhibitory effect of Akt on caspase 9 .
This contrasts with recent evidence suggesting that the Wave complex may function as an invasion suppressor in epithelial cancers .
CONCLUSIONS : LDH5 is overexpressed in NSCLC and could hence serve as an additional marker for malignancy .
Finally , sorafenib induced autophagy in Huh7 xenograft tumors in nude mice and coadministration with chloroquine significantly suppressed tumor growth compared with sorafenib alone .
This review will discuss the regulation of expression of IGF - 1 , IGF - 1R , and IGF binding proteins in the vasculature and summarize evidence implicating involvement of this system in vascular diseases .
Lactoferrin enhances Fas expression and apoptosis in the colon mucosa of azoxymethane - treated rats .
AngiomiRs - - key regulators of angiogenesis .
Administration of 317615 x 2HCI orally twice daily to nude mice bearing subcutaneous MX - 1 tumors or SKOV - 3 tumors resulted in a decreased number of intratumoral vessels as determined by CD31 and CD105 staining with decreases of 35 % and 43 % in MX - 1 tumors and 60 % and 75 % in SKOV - 3 tumors , respectively .
Protection from experimental ocular herpetic keratitis by a heat - killed virus vaccine .
The archival surgical pathology files of The Johns Hopkins Hospital were searched for cases of brain metastases biopsied between 1990 and 2000 .
Cells stably transformed by the Src oncogene tyrosine kinase were examined for STAT protein activation .
Gene enhancement with IGF - 1 improved donor cell proliferation , survival , and engraftment after cell transplantation , perhaps mediated by enhanced angiogenesis and reduced apoptosis .
To prevent adhesions , an experimental study was planned to designate the effects of low molecular weight ( LMW ) heparins and hyperbaric oxygen ( HBO ) therapy both on the formation of adhesions and wound healing .
The expression of VEGFs did not correlate with either lymphatic density or neck metastasis .
The conclusion most consistent with the data is that the two MSRs are overlapping , spliced RNAs .
Although , the growth of all three cell lines was suppressed by DMI , it was more effective in Ca3 / 7 cells .
Prognostic value of p53 protein expression and vascular endothelial growth factor expression in resected squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus .
However , after they formed tumors in nude mice , every clone acquired high metastatic ability and the gene amplification increased , with elevated mRNA expression .
Malignant melanoma is characterized by frequent metastasis , however , specific changes that regulate this process have not been clearly delineated .
The main objective of the study was to determine the mean visual acuity change .
Elevated serum soluble VAP - 1 ( sVAP - 1 ) levels occur in certain diseases having an inflammatory component .
Loss of p21 completely abolished the cell cycle arrest function of p53R172P and accelerated tumor onset in Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) mice .
Interleukin - 6 ( IL - 6 ) is proinflammatory cytokine that produces multifunctional effects .
Stimulation of tumor angiogenesis was connected with about 2 - fold increase in intracellular level of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) .
With the enhancement of FPC concentration , the authors observed chromatin condensation in some phases companying with the characteristic apoptosis .
After inhibition of gluconeogenesis , the plasma glucose decreased and the blood lactate increased significantly more in TB than NTB animals .
The issue is complicated because both disorders have a propensity for MDS or AML as part of their natural history .
Regulation of skin microvasculature angiogenesis , cell migration , and permeability by a specific inhibitor of PKCalpha .
Targeted antibody - based therapy has been used successfully to treat cancers .
The p24 protein family have multiple functions in protein transport in the early secretory pathway .
Vessel density ( MVD - microvessel density ) , endothelial cell proliferation fraction ( ECP % ) and tumour cell proliferation fraction ( TCP % ) were assessed .
Our results indicate that the nuclear phosphatase activity is inhibited by greater than 50 % in Galpha ( 12 ) QL cells compared to vector control cells .
Upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor receptors is associated with advanced neuroblastoma .
Serum endostatin concentration was 1540 + / - 560 ng / ml at the second week of administration , the expression of endostatin diminished a month later .
METHODS : LOH of epigenetic microsatellites of PTEN ( D10S541 , D10S583 and D10S1687 ) in advanced gastric cancer was detected by PCR - SSCP .
Thrombospondin - 1 ( TSP - 1 ) is a potent angiogenesis inhibitor , and down - regulation of TSP - 1 has been suggested to alter tumor growth by modulating angiogenesis in a variety of tumor types .
There is accumulating evidence that the tissue damage associated with chronic wounds is initiated and propagated by an inappropriately excessive inflammatory response .
At this time , the cells ' growth is arrested at very high density , and no differentiated morphologic characteristics are observed .
[ Radiologic - pathologic correlations in breast diseases ]
The results are consistent with the hypothesis that the activity of COX - II is associated with the formation of functional CL via its stimulation of angiogenesis .
CONCLUSIONS : Neuroblastoma cells grown in coculture conditioned media show increased expression of Bcl - 2 and decreased Fas ligand levels .
P18 showed the highest IC50 and blocked angiogenesis in vivo : P23 was inactive and P14 was proangiogenic .
There were no differences in NME mRNA levels between these two cell lines , suggesting that expression of these proteins is regulated at a post - transcriptional level .
Overexpression confers an oncogenic potential upon the eph gene .
This hypothesis in humans can be tested only by intervention trials that are in progress .
Our results provide the first evidence of the abilities of the LMP1 gene , acting alone , to effectively induce the proliferation of primary MEF cells and of its cooperativity with another cellular oncogene in transforming primary cells .
These effects translated into a 2 . 2 - to 229 . 0 - fold increase in the cytotoxic activity of ara - C against clonogenic leukemic cells after GM - CSF or IL - 3 pretreatment .
Effect of 1 - alkylpyrrolidine N - oxides on energy metabolism of cancer cells .
The hypothesis that modifications of activity and / or expression of nitric oxide synthase ( NOS ) isozymes might play a role in these modifications , via enhanced local production of nitric oxide , was tested in this study .
These results suggest that the role of mast cells in angiogenesis may be to enhance migration of the endothelial cells of growing capillaries .
Immunostaining data are interpreted with computer image analysis and reported as stain index .
In vivo and in vitro results .
c - erbB2 was overexpressed in 43 of 145 patients ( 29 . 7 % ) , which directly correlated with tumor size and inversely with estrogen receptor ( ER ) level .
This activation correlated with induction of HIF - 1alpha expression and DNA binding activity which was blocked by the p38 inhibitor SB203580 .
Rapid endothelial cell migration and inhibition of thrombosis are critical for the resolution of denudation injuries to the vessel wall .
Positron emission tomography ( PET ) demonstrated a sixfold increased uptake of [ 11C ] methionine and hyperperfusion in the HPC , whereas glucose utilization was decreased in this area .
Mutations in the genes encoding the three other succinate dehydrogenase subunits ( SDHB , SDHC and SDHD ) have been identified in patients affected by familial or ' apparently sporadic ' paraganglioma and / or pheochromocytoma , an autosomal inherited cancer - susceptibility syndrome .
Since congenital neutropenia and SDS are inherited forms of bone marrow failure , G - CSF may accelerate the propensity for MDS / AML in the genetically altered stem and progenitor cells , especially in those with G - CSF receptor and ras mutations ( 82 % and 50 % of patients who transform , respectively ) .
Staining of the normal mammary epithelium , if present , was much lower than observed in tumor cells from the same patient .
The mice were treated by intratumoral injection of 2 x 10 ( 9 ) pfu Ad - mEndostatin .
A prefabricated composite fat flap consisting of muscle woven into an anatomically distinct fat pad was studied in a rabbit model .
VEGF is upregulated after hypoxic injury to the brain , which can occur during cerebral ischemia or high - altitude edema , and has been implicated in the blood - brain barrier breakdown associated with these conditions .
There was no correlation between the expression of HLA - DR and infiltration by dendritic cells .
The mechanism underlying the association between high PE and poor clinical outcome is unclear , although it may be related to the possible PE reflection of tumor burden .
The beclin 1 autophagy gene is monoallelically deleted in 40 - 75 % of cases of human sporadic breast , ovarian , and prostate cancer .
Although one mutant allele was detected in revertant EMS - 1 - 19 , overexpression of this mutant allele failed to inhibit v - fos induced cell transformation .
The update information testifies about protumoral activity of neutrophils : they migrate to a tumor and promote angiogenesis and metastasis at late stages of the tumor .
BACKGROUND : Endostatin , a C - terminal fragment of collagen XVIII , is an endogenous angiogenesis inhibitor .
The antiangiogenic properties of PDT have been adapted for treatment of subfoveal choroidal neovascular membranes due to disease states such as age - related macular degeneration ( AMD ) .
Development of a mouse model for lymph node metastasis with endometrial cancer .
Here , we show that NCAM - deficient beta cell tumors grew leaky blood vessels with perturbed pericyte - endothelial cell - cell interactions and deficient perivascular deposition of ECM components .
Microvascular density and vascular endothelial growth factor immunoreactivity as predictors of regional lymph node metastasis from betel - associated oral squamous cell carcinoma .
Attenuating galectin - 1 expression by siRNA constrained PTTG - HA / EC9706 cell motility ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
A DNA fragment containing Epstein - Barr virus ( EBV ) terminal fragment sequence was obtained from a genomic library of nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( NPC ) .
However , the mechanism ( s ) by which ciprofloxacin elicits its biological effects on bladder cancer cells is not well documented .
Extracellular matrix as a bioactive material for soft tissue reconstruction .
Glucose consumption by drug - resistant myeloma cells was unaffected by 8 - aminoadenosine , and accordingly , no activation of autophagy was observed .
Staining was effected by the standard avidin - biotin horseradish peroxidase system .
[ Expression and mutation of c - kit gene in gastrointestinal stromal tumor ] .
The threshold level of adenomatous polyposis coli protein for mouse intestinal tumorigenesis .
Nonetheless , anti - VEGF therapy has enhanced the arsenal of anticancer therapies and has provided new insights into the biology of malignancy .
The results of our current studies provide strong experimental evidence for the use of ciprofloxacin as a potential preventive and / or therapeutic agent for the management of transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder .
Increased glucose transporter protein expression may contribute to the increased uptake of 2 - [ 18F ] - fluoro - 2 - deoxy - D - glucose ( FDG ) by these tumors observed by positron emission tomography ( PET ) imaging .
The cells on 15 - microm wide strips completely aligned in the direction of the strip , and had significantly lower shape index than those in all other groups .
The heterogeneity of nm23 - H1 gene product expression between primary cancers and metastatic lymph nodes was observed in 41 . 3 % .
Additionally , 3 - BrPA treatment significantly impaired lactate production by HepG2 cells , even when glucose was withdrawn from the incubation medium .
Excitotoxic damage due to striatal infusion of an NMDA - receptor agonist ( cis - 2 , 4 - methanoglutamate ) was also markedly inhibited ( 71 % ) by injection of the IL - 1ra .
Recent evidence suggests the existence of endothelial precursors in adult bone marrow cells , but it is unclear whether those precursors have a role in tumor neovascularization .
In the trans - splenic hepatic metastasis model using nude mice , the augmentation of cancer metastasis was observed by the treatment of carcinostatic agents .
Lipid / cholesterol - lowering agents , diet and antiplatelet adherence ( aspirin ) therapy may help slow the progression of vessel disease in some instances ; but surgical reconstruction may be the only option in advanced stages , and even this is not always an option .
The parameters considered are the number of platelets and their aggregability , prothrombin and partial thromboplastin times , plasma fibrinogen concentration and tumor cell procoagulant activity .
Further deletions reveal a sequence within the carboxy - terminal domain that is responsible for in vivo bundle formation .
It was also shown by our studies that apoptosis was induced in DU - 145 prostate carcinoma cells with significant cytotoxicity , no matter which agent applied first .
The results showed that expression levels of both nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 mRNA varied in normal buccal mucosa , leukoplakia , adjacent nontumorous mucosa , submandibular gland , CBM and lymph nodes with or without metastasis .
Angiogenesis inhibitors have been developed to interrupt the angiogenic process at the growth factor , receptor tyrosine kinase and intracellular kinase levels .
Constitutively active RhoA ( FRTL - 5 - RhoA QL cells ) exhibited a fibroblast - like phenotype with organized actin fibers , whereas cells expressing the RhoA negative dominant phenotype ( FRTL - 5 - RhoA N19 cells ) present a rounded morphology and lose normal cytoskeletal architecture .
We investigated the hypothesis that naked DNA encoding for VEGF could be used in a strategy of arterial gene therapy to stimulate collateral artery development .
PLGA - heparin microspheres released out bFGF in a more sustained manner with a smaller extent of initial burst than PLGA microspheres , indicating that surface immobilized heparin controlled the release rate of bFGF .
Abnormal beta - catenin expression was associated significantly with positive 14 - 3 - 3zeta expression .
A key factor in the response of cancer cells to chemotherapeutic drugs is the activation of the apoptotic pathway , a pathway that is often impaired in chemoresistant colon cancer cells .
We hypothesized that signaling through multiple mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) kinase ( MKK ) pathways is essential for the growth and vascularization of soft - tissue sarcomas , which are malignant tumors derived from mesenchymal tissues .
Effect of platelet - rich plasma and fibrin glue on healing of critical - size calvarial bone defects .
Together , these studies define a novel p53 - survivin signaling pathway activated by DNA damage that results in down - regulation of survivin , cell cycle arrest , and apoptosis .
Moreover , the downregulation of c - myc oncogene by an antisense strategy might represent a useful goal for improving the efficacy of this anti - neoplastic drug family .
Importantly , the addition of a neutralizing VEGF antibody abolished M - CSF - induced blood vessel formation .
To examine the roles of LMP1 in cell proliferation and growth regulation in primary culture cells , we constructed a recombinant retrovirus containing an LMP1 gene .
The results indicated that exogenous lactate was the major substrate for oxidative metabolism .
These data suggested that inhibition of p53 - dependent apoptosis may depend on the transcriptional repression function of the 55 - kDa protein , which appears to be regulated be phosphorylation at the carboxy terminus .
Further , the inhibition of EGF binding by tumor promoters following long - term treatment of Swiss 3T3 cells with PDBu also varied with growth state .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : An Affymetrix expression microarray was used to compare gene expression profiles between six pairs of TFs and normal fibroblasts from esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( ESCC ) .
These data suggest that VEGF plays a key role in the angiogenic response that occurs with chronic bradycardia .
Using tissue - specific ablation in mice , we deleted the BR - SMADs from somatic cells of ovaries and testes .
In patients who transform to overt MDS or AML , hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is the only chance for cure .
Subcutaneous implantation of bFGF loaded PLGA - heparin microspheres in mice significantly induced the formation of new vascular microvessels .
OBJECTIVE : To study the activation of sterol regulatory element binding protein ( SREBP ) and its critical role in endothelial cell migration .
Activated platelets enhance SKOV3 human ovarian cancer cell invasion through Matrigel and increase the amount of uPA and VEGF secreted into SKOV3 cell conditioned medium .
Previous studies have shown that activation of the signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 ( STAT5 ) plays an essential role in leukemogenesis mediated through constitutive activated protein tyrosine kinases ( PTK ) .
Furthermore , both PLD1 and PLD2 transformants , but not vector - transfectants , induced undifferentiated sarcoma when transplanted into nude mice .
Monitoring peroxide - induced changes in GSH and GSSG gave consistent results ; e . g . , glucose - depleted L . Se ( + ) cells exhibited a first order loss of GSH that was substantially faster than that of glucose - depleted L . Se ( - ) cells .
[ An experimental study on angiogenesis of non - vascularized autogenous bone graft with vascular bundle implantation ]
In this study , the role of the proprotein convertase furin in PLAG1 proto - oncogene - induced salivary gland tumorigenesis was investigated .
N - myc is coexpressed with WT1 in the developing kidney and is overexpressed in many Wilms ' tumors .
The following review describes key molecular mechanisms and novel therapies that are on the horizon for antiangiogenic tumor therapy .
These data suggest that 20 - HETE stimulates superoxide formation by pathways other than apocynin - sensitive NAD ( P ) H oxidase , thereby activating MAPK and then enhancing VEGF synthesis that drives EC proliferation .
Expression of SPARC was significantly correlated with the expression of VEGF and MVD in colon cancer tissues .
Recent studies have demonstrated that tumor cells treated with antibodies specific for beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin ( beta ( 2 ) M ) or major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) class I molecules undergo apoptosis in vitro and in vivo ( mouse models ) .
Here we report a zebrafish brca2 insertional mutant that shares phenotypes with human patients and identifies a novel brca2 function in oogenesis .
Together , we proposed that MOG alone or administered with other anticancer agents may provide a novel therapeutic strategy for leukemia .
BI - 1 ( Bax inhibitor - 1 ) , an apoptosis - inhibiting gene belonging to the Bcl - 2 protein family , plays an important role in mitochondrial apoptosis pathway to suppress Bax - induced apoptosis .
METHODS : NF - kappaB inhibition was achieved by IkappaBalpha super - repressor adenoviral vector and activation was monitored by EMSA and reporter assays .
The decreased expression of SEMA3B , SEMA3F , and plexin - A3 was confirmed in stage 3 ovarian tumors .
The quaternary benzo [ c ] phenanthridine alkaloid sanguinarine inhibits the proliferation of cancerous cells from different origins , including lung , breast , pancreatic and colon , but nothing is known of its effects on osteosarcoma , a primary malignant bone tumour .
Under serum - starvation conditions , decreased growth rate , slow rounding - up of cells , cell detachment , and formation of apoptotic bodies indicative of anoikis ( detachment - induced apoptosis ) were preceded by significant downregulation of 70 kDa clusterin precursor and upregulation of 45 - 40 kDa isoforms .
In contrast , the implants that were irradiated three times ( single fractions at 0 , 24 , and 48 hours after implantation ) demonstrated significantly diminished ( greater than 25 percent , p less than 0 . 05 ) neovascularization beyond day 7 , whereas implants irradiated only at 48 hours after implantation did not .
In conclusion , aspirin and nimesulide could inhibit cell proliferation and induce apoptosis in esophageal squamous carcinoma cells .
Patients with hyperfibrinogenemia showed worse clinical outcome in T2 gastric cancer , however , there was no correlation of plasma fibrinogen level with prognosis in T3 / T4 gastric cancer .
BACKGROUND : Patients with recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa ( RDEB ) have deficiencies of collagen type VII and have elevated levels of fibroblast collagenase , and a greatly increased risk of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma .
After 21 days , the serum concentration of nitrite , capillary density and expression of HIF1alpha were determined .
Our previous studies have shown that the neurotransmitter dopamine could inhibit VEGF - induced phosphorylation of VEGF receptor 2 ( VEGFR - 2 ) , endothelial cell proliferation , migration , microvascular permeability , and thus , angiogenesis .
Inhibition of this pathway may provide clinical benefits to cancer patients .
Both B and T lymphocytes diversify their antigen receptors through RAG1 / 2 mediated recombination , but B cells undergo two additional processes - - somatic hypermutation ( SHM ) and class - switch recombination ( CSR ) , both initiated by activation - induced cytidine deaminase ( AID ) .
Small interfering ribonucleic acid specific for MCT 1 and 2 reduced expression of these isoforms in U - 87 MG cells to barely detectable levels and reduced lactate efflux by 30 % individually and 85 % in combination , with a concomitant decrease of intracellular pH by 0 . 6 units ( a fourfold increase in intracellular H ( + ) ) .
As SET has been previously reported to be an inhibitor of phosphatase PP2A , the nuclear phosphatase activity was monitored in cells expressing activated Galpha ( 12 ) .
This study uses quantitative histomorphometry and double - immunohistologic detection techniques for the demarcation of proliferating endothelial cells , to show that synchronized hair follicle cycling in adolescent C57BL / 6 mice is associated with substantial angiogenesis , and that inhibiting angiogenesis in vivo by the intraperitoneal application of a fumagillin derivative retards experimentally induced anagen development in these mice .
In 1986 , Dvorak proposed that by secreting VPF , tumors induce angiogenesis by turning on the wound healing response .
In contrast , both HER2 ( 4 / 12 ; 33 % ) and B ( 1 ) R ( 1 / 12 ; 8 . 3 % ) showed a low expression in invasive gallbladder carcinomas .
The mechanisms whereby RNA leukemia viruses cause lymphoid neoplasia after a long latent period have been extensively studied but are only partially understood .
TTF - 1 staining was present in 31 of the 40 ( 78 % ) metastatic lung carcinomas , but in only 1 of the 31 ( 3 % ) metastatic nonpulmonary carcinomas ( a small - cell carcinoma of the sinonasal tract ) .
Fifty distinct different protein spots were analyzed with online LC - ESI - MS / MS .
A better understanding of how p53 coordinates metabolic adaptation will facilitate the identification of novel therapeutic targets and will also illuminate the wider role of p53 in human biology .
[ Retinochoroidopathy after intravitreal anti - VEGF treatment ]
Specifically , CLA was found to decrease the ability of mammary stromal cells to form complex anastomosing microcapillary networks in vitro on Engelbreth - Holm - Swarm - derived reconstituted basement membrane .
Some human cancer cells have been found to overexpress eph mRNAs without gene amplification .
Endothelial cells grown at normal pH suffer no ill effects from this angiostatin - mediated inhibition of ATP synthase , whereas endothelial cells grown at low , tumor - like extracellular pH cannot maintain a normal intracellular pH and die .
The effects of IGF - 1 are mediated principally through the IGF - 1R but are modulated by complex interactions with multiple IGF binding proteins that themselves are regulated by phosphorylation , proteolysis , polymerization , and cell or matrix association .
Tumors of the retinal pigment epithelium metastasize to inguinal lymph nodes and spleen in tyrosinase - related protein 1 / SV40 T antigen transgenic mice .
Tumor necrosis factor - alpha ( TNF - alpha ) was first isolated two decades ago as a macrophageproduced protein that can effectively kill tumor cells .
Although tumor cells can exploit cytokine signaling to promote growth , invasion , and metastasis , the response of normal and premalignant epithelial cells to cytokines present in a developing tumor microenvironment remains unclear .
Pro / antioxidant status and AP - 1 transcription factor in murine skin following topical exposure to cumene hydroperoxide .
Increased glycolysis is a characteristic of cancer cells .
Experimental flaps were found to be perfused fully with fluorescein and lead oxide ; control fat pads were found not to be perfused .
Pten signaling in gliomas .
Engrafted MSCs survived , proliferated and differentiated into myocardium - like cells .
Functional significance of VEGF - a in human ovarian carcinoma : role in vasculogenic mimicry .
VPF / VEGF induced dermal microvascular EC expression of mRNAs encoding the alphav and beta3 integrin subunits resulting in increased levels of the alphavbeta3 heterodimer at the cell surface , and VPF / VEGF also induced mRNA encoding osteopontin ( OPN ) , an alphavbeta3 ligand .
CONCLUSIONS : This study provides evidence that EPOX induces glutathione depletion , ERK inactivation , and Mcl - 1 degradation on endothelial cells , which leads to inhibition of angiogenesis .
Disease - free ( DFS ) and overall ( OAS ) survival curves were estimated by the Kaplan - Meier method .
This inhibition was blocked by the neutralizing anti - TGF - beta 2G7 antibody but not by a nonspecific IgG2 .
Role of stromal myofibroblasts in invasive breast cancer : stromal expression of alpha - smooth muscle actin correlates with worse clinical outcome .
CONCLUSIONS : VEGF - A ( 165 ) is one of the major angiogenesis regulators among the ligands ' family of VEGF , whereas its receptors KDR , and most probably Flt - 1 , may contribute to a poor prognosis ( angiogenic ) phenotype , as indicated by their upregulated MRNA levels in stage III neuroblastoma .
Osteoclast - like cells and tartarate resistant acid phosphatase ( TRAP ) activities were then quantitated .
However , owing to the long latency of tumor formation and the sporadic occurrence of bona fide mammary cancers , we conclude that the Tsg101 protein has only weak oncogenic properties .
METHODS : The expression of five facilitative glucose transporters , Glut - 1 ( erythrocyte type ) , Glut - 2 ( liver type ) , Glut - 3 ( brain type ) , Glut - 4 ( muscle / fat type ) , and Glut - 5 ( small intestine type ) , was studied by immunohistochemistry of paraffin sections from 12 primary human breast cancers and 8 lymph node metastases from 2 patients .
Conditioned media obtained from distinct tumour types with unique patterns of metastatic spread redirected fibronectin expression and cluster formation , thereby transforming the metastatic profile .
Invasion of adjacent organs was more frequent in the RSCM group than in the RSCB group and the Ki - 67 labeling index of the tumors was significantly higher in the former group .
Cyclooxygenase - 2 ( COX - 2 ) inhibitors are anti - inflammatory agents , which have potent anti - inflammatory , anti - angiogenic and analgesic properties yet do not affect platelet function in the manner of traditional non - steroidal anti - inflammatory drugs .
Following implantation within the striatum , the volume of the primary fibroblast grafts , stained immunohistochemically for fibronectin , does not differ significantly at 3 and 8 weeks .
Furthermore , we showed that glycogen was depleted in a low glucose medium , but conserved under hypoxic conditions .
Formation of new bone during vertical distraction osteogenesis of the human mandible is related to the presence of blood vessels .
HIFs are also expressed during normal development ; for example , HIF - 2alpha is specifically expressed and appears to be involved in the development of the murine sympathetic nervous system ( SNS ) .
HCMV immediate - early proteins were clearly shown to be responsible for elevating p53 levels in infected fibroblasts ; expression of HCMV immediate - early region 1 and 2 proteins resulted in elevation of p53 levels in transfected human fibroblasts .
The Interferon - inducible gene IFI16 , a member of the HIN200 family , is activated by oxidative stress and cell density , in addition to Interferons , and it is implicated in the regulation of endothelial cell proliferation and vessel formation in vitro .
Overexpression of DLC1 but not DLC1 - Ser88Ala mutant promotes cancerous properties of breast cancer cells .
Changes in endothelial cell shape accompanied SOC activation and were dependent on Ca2 + entry - induced reconfiguration of peripheral ( cortical ) filamentous actin ( F - actin ) .
Mitochondrial complex II , or succinate dehydrogenase , is a key enzymatic complex involved in both the tricarboxylic acid ( TCA ) cycle and oxidative phosphorylation as part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain .
AIM : To determine whether a variety of ciliary body tumours synthesise opticin to characterise further its role in ciliary body health and disease .
In a subset of neuroblastomas , a spontaneous neuronal to neuroendocrine differentiation occurs in areas adjacent to necrotic zones .
By modulating beta - catenin levels in a mouse model of melanoma that is based on melanocyte - specific Pten loss and Braf ( V600E ) mutation , we demonstrate that beta - catenin is a central mediator of melanoma metastasis to the lymph nodes and lungs .
However , we need to determine whether it happens in breast cancer .
The apoptotic cascade was studied by immunoblot analysis of caspases following Sim treatment .
A 71 - year - old woman was admitted to our hospital because of breathlessness .
We tested this using HT - 1080 , NCI , and Shac fibrosarcoma - derived cell lines and anthrax lethal toxin ( LeTx ) , a bacterial toxin that inactivates MKKs .
Semaphorins and their cognate receptors , Plexins and neuropilins , are involved in neuronal pathfinding , immune function , and tumor progression through effects on blood vessel growth and cell migration .
Therefore , understanding these signaling mechanisms may provide us with novel ways to develop strategies for treating clinical diseases induced by these cytokines .
Simian virus 40 large T antigen and two independent T - antigen segments sensitize cells to apoptosis following genotoxic damage .
We also compared the presence of EGFR and TGF - alpha and Ki - 67 index with clinical data .
Furthermore , the biological activity of FGF - BP is neutralized by monoclonal antibodies suggesting the potential for antibody - based therapeutic targeting .
With a p53 - null cell line ( EU - 4 ) , although doxorubicin treatment arrested cells in G ( 2 ) / M , survivin expression was unchanged , and cells underwent only limited apoptosis .
Angiogenesis is the biologic process of forming new blood vessels .
They also support the implication of local advanced glycation end product deposits and liberation of VEGF in that process .
We investigated the mechanism by which ephrin - B1 promotes membrane ruffling in human aortic endothelial cells , because membrane ruffling heralds cell body migration .
Several of these inhibitors are currently being evaluated in clinical trials .
Two patients presented both RUNX1 mutations and RUNX1 - PRDM16 fusion .
Four human cervical cancer cell lines were treated for 24 h with various concentration of paclitaxel , and the sensitivity was analysed by an MTT assay .
Here we review the recent evidence of a simple genetic mechanism by which tumor suppressor p53 regulates mitochondrial respiration with secondary changes in glycolysis that are reminiscent of the Warburg effect .
In 17 rabbits , a 2 - cm strip of latissimus dorsi was woven into the parascapular fat pad on one side , with the contralateral fat pad serving as a control .
Bcl - 2 protected SH - EP cells from death during nutritional deprivation by activating energetically advantageous oxidative phosphorylation .
The proinflammatory activities link TNF - alpha with a wide variety of autoimmune diseases , including psoriasis , inflammatory bowel disease , rheumatoid arthritis , systemic sclerosis , systemic lupus erythematosus , multiple sclerosis , diabetes and ankylosing spondylitis .
It enhances solid tumor growth and provides an ability to establish metastasis at peripheral sites by tumor cell migration .
Nuclear translocation of a clusterin isoform is associated with induction of anoikis in SV40 - immortalized human prostate epithelial cells .
Actinomycin - D , but not puromycin , also blocks progestin - dependent induction of TSP - 1 .
Several such agents are currently in clinical trials , and many others are under development .
The 5T4 antigen is a transmembrane glycoprotein with a 310 amino acid extracellular domain and a 44 amino acid cytoplasmic domain .
Gliomas are the most common primary tumours of the central nervous system , with nearly 15 , 000 diagnosed annually in the United States and a lethality approaching 80 % within the first year of glioblastoma diagnosis .
Heating and protease treatment of the stimulants reduced the VEGF enhancing levels in Ve and OMP in vitro .
At later stages , branches of radial arteries penetrated the periphery forming an extensive mesh of capillaries on the concave surface .
However , it is reasonable to expect that mechanistically complementary combinations of these measures could have a worthwhile impact on survival times and , when used as adjuvants , could improve the cure rates achievable with standard therapies .
Treatment with anti - Fas , however , significantly decreased Fas - c - erbB2 and Fas - c - met association .
Tumor endothelial cell targeted cyclic RGD - modified heparin derivative : inhibition of angiogenesis and tumor growth .
Adenomatoid tumour of the liver .
Finally , sections of the control and experimental flaps were analyzed histologically .
Because these phenomena are all of critical importance during morphogenesis , and because FAK is expressed in embryonic cells , evidence has been accumulating to indicate that FAK may be an important modulator of developmental processes .
Requirement of estrogen receptor expression and function for [ 12Val ] K - Ras - mediated NIH3T3 cell transformation .
In contrast to CYR61 and CTGF , no significant association was found between expression of either WISP - 1 or NOV versus any of the pathological features .
Papilloma formation was observed in both the DMBA - TPA - and DMBA - Cum - OOH - exposed animals , whereas skin carcinomas were found only in the DMBA - Cum - OOH - treated mice .
Upon HTPB treatment , cell cycle arrest was induced and subsequently led to mitochondria - mediated apoptosis .
Moreover , HMGA2 knockdown by short hairpin HMGA2 in HepG2 cells leads to progressive telomere shortening and a concurrent decrease of steady - state hTERT mRNA levels , attenuating their ability to form colonies in soft agar .
Vascular abnormalities in the retina were compared between patients with vascularized ( n = 34 , group 1 ) and nonvascularized ( n = 7 , group 2 ) PED on indocyanine green angiography and correlated with the size of the PED and the presence of serous retinal detachment .
To directly address whether pericyte dysfunction increases the metastatic potential of solid tumors , we studied beta cell tumorigenesis in primary pericyte - deficient Pdgfb ( ret / ret ) mice .
In contrast , CH - 11 binds to Fas , but is unable to transmit the death signal beyond the plasma membrane suggesting a block at the DISC ( death inducing signaling complex ) .
We investigated the biological significance of estrogen receptors ( ERs ) in NIH3T3 cell transformation by the [ 12Val ] K - Ras mutant .
The value of serum S - 100beta and interleukins as tumour markers in advanced melanoma .
The process of angiogenesis is also thought to occur in response to ischaemic conditions , which lie at the core of cardiovascular disease states such as coronary artery disease and congestive heart failure .
To study Hedgehog signaling in vivo a hind limb tumor model with the B16F0 cell line was used .
RASSF1A is a tumor suppressor gene .
Here we report that the chemotherapeutic drug doxorubicin , a DNA - damaging agent , activates a p53 - survivin signaling pathway inducing cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ) .
The effect of angiopoietin 1 depends on the tumour model .
The transforming growth factor beta ( TGFbeta ) family has critical roles in the regulation of fertility .
However , its role in tumor - associated lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic metastasis remains unclear .
Based on these data , our aim was to examine the synergistic / additive cytotoxic and apoptotic effects of combination of docetaxel and ATRA , in hormone - and drug refractory human DU - 145 prostate cancer cells .
Brick1 is an essential regulator of actin cytoskeleton required for embryonic development and cell transformation .
We analyzed their ability to block endothelial cell chemotaxis and induce apoptosis in vitro and their antiangiogenic activity in vivo .
Several regulatory and signaling molecules governing angiogenesis are of interest , including growth factors ( eg , vascular endothelial growth factor , platelet - derived growth factor , fibroblast growth factor , and epidermal growth factor ) , receptor tyrosine kinases , and transcription factors such as hypoxia inducible factor , as well as molecules involved in mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) and phosphoinositide 3 - kinase ( PI3K ) signaling .
Treatment with pharmacological inhibitors and small interfering RNAs reveal that induction and activation of Sp1 , HIF1alpha , and Stat3 facilitate their nuclear localization and binding to their specific motifs of the VEGF promoter and induce VEGF expression via two independent pathways , DCN / EGFR / phosphoinositide - 3 kinase / AKT and DCN / EGFR / ERK1 / 2 , respectively , in DCN synthesizing MCE cells .
Glutamine and glucose as energy substrates for Ehrlich ascites tumour cells .
Zebrafish Robo4 rescues both Rho GTPase homeostasis and serum reduced chemotaxis in robo4 knockdown cells .
METHODS : We analyzed the hypermethylation status and expression of the gene and 12q13 . 1 loss of heterozygosity in 31 PCNSLs .
CONCLUSION : The protein profile of metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines displayed obvious differences compared with non - metastatic liver cancer cell lines .
CONCLUSION : Endostatin gene therapy mediated by adenoviral vector efficiently induces expression of endostatin in vivo , and inhibits the growth and metastasis of tumor .
Reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) produced in the course of cellular oxidative phosphorylation , and by activated phagocytic cells during oxidative bursts , exceed the physiological buffering capacity and result in oxidative stress .
The latter in its parent form or in its sugar form , deoxyribose ( dR ) may play a role in the induction of angiogenesis .
Very low - dose irradiation ( 2 x 2 Gy ) is a new , effective , and safe local treatment for follicular lymphoma .
In addition , TNFalpha treatment alone led to increased malignant transformation of mouse embryo fibroblasts , which could be partially suppressed by antioxidants .
As determined by ELISA and immunoblot assays , ras p21 in the serum increased with increased tumor growth .
These data indicate that dietary folate supplementation at 4x the basal dietary requirement significantly suppresses UC - associated colorectal carcinogenesis in the IL - 2 ( null ) x beta ( 2 ) m ( null ) mice .
Decrease in c - Myc activity enhances cancer cell sensitivity to vinblastine .
Analysis of VLB cytotoxicity demonstrated a 3 - fold increase in VLB sensitivity in LoVo - mycANS cells .
One hTERT transduced BMEC culture underwent a long proliferative lag before resuming proliferation .
In this study , we have established stable cell lines overexpressing PLD1 and PLD2 from fibroblast cells .
Two weeks after injection , there was histological evidence of neovascularization in the tissues surrounding the Matrigel containing AdCMV . VEGF165 , whereas no significant angiogenesis was observed in response to AdCMV . beta gal .
DNA microarray analysis allows for analysis of drug effects on multiple pathways linked to cancer and can suggest corresponding imaging tracers for further analysis as biomarkers of tumor response .
RESULTS : There was a positive correlation between plasma fibrinogen levels and the depth of invasion ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
RESULTS : The maximum tolerated dose of galectin - 3C in nude mice was determined to be > 125 mg / kg without overt adverse effects .
In spleen , tyrosinase , TRP - 1 and SV40 Tag were expressed and tyrosinase was enzymatically active .
These results suggest that prolonged treatment with tumor promoters alters the sensitivity of cells to activators of protein kinase C in a growth state - dependent manner .
bFGF loaded PLGA - HP microspheres showed sustained release profiles of bFGF in vitro , demonstrating reversible and specific binding of bFGF to immobilized heparin .
Regulation of the Warburg effect in early - passage breast cancer cells .
The increased energy expended by the host to synthesize substrate , which is utilized by the tumor , is a potential cause of cancer cachexia .
The final mean visual acuity in group A ( 55 years of age or younger ) was 20 / 80 and significantly ( P = 0 . 006 ) better than that ( 20 / 138 ) in group B ( older than 55 years of age ) .
The aim of the present study was to investigate the frequency of the less common p . Val600Lys ( V600K ) mutation in metastatic melanoma from a high incidence region .
Our data suggest that enhanced proliferation is precipitated by an accelerated cell cycle , and decreased migration by an inability to activate CDC42 .
Therefore , the role of VEGF after seizures could be either protective or destructive .
To investigate this hypothesis , we isolated primary mouse embryonic fibroblast ( MEF ) lines from Fh1 - deficient mice .
PURPOSE : To report on bevacizumab treatment for radiation retinopathy affecting the macula .
PTTG activated E - box transcription and induced c - Myc protein expression in EC9706 cells , which in turn may act on an E - box motif within the galectin - 1 promoter .
Bmi - 1 over - expression in neural stem / progenitor cells increases proliferation and neurogenesis in culture but has little effect on these functions in vivo .
To better understand the activity of cediranib against VEGFR - 3 and its associated signaling events compared with its activity against VEGFR - 2 , we used the receptor - specific ligands VEGF - E and VEGF - C156S .
The special attention is focused on the ambiguity of the neutrophil role in oncogenesis .
We conclude that stimulation of a putative growth factor signal pathway , associated with ras - induced proliferation , transiently suppresses the induction of transcription factors functionally involved in cell growth and differentiation .
However , in rap1GAPII - expressing cells , ephrin - B1 did not induce membrane spreading , probably due to instability of the focal complex .
This chapter focuses on the morphology of blood vessel formation in and around the early central nervous system ( CNS , i . e . , brain and spinal cord ) of avian embryos .
CCL16 may be specifically cross - linked to CCR1 expressed on endothelial cells .
Enforced expression of tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase - 3 affects functional capillary morphogenesis and inhibits tumor growth in a murine tumor model .
We found that bolus ( 3h ) treatment with doxorubicin resulted in a dose - dependent decrease of viable cells and concomitant increase of apoptosis .
These changes should diminish apoptosis activity in the tumor cells .
Because of this , and the virtual explosion of interest in pomegranate as a medicinal and nutritional product that has followed , this review is accordingly launched .
Furthermore , interaction of fibroblasts and high invasive melanoma cells with soluble recombinant DC - 9 resulted in enhanced expression of MMP - 1 and MMP - 2 .
This cell line is not invasive by nature and secretes moderate amounts of VEGF - C ; intrauterine injection of HEC1A cells into Balb / c nude mice resulted in uterine cancer with lymph node metastasis after 8 weeks .
Emodin also induced differentiation of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells by exhibiting a morphological maturation property of large lacy nuclei surrounded by sizable flat cytoplasm and by showing a measurable production of large lipid droplets , which is a marker of mature breast cells .
IL - 17F ablation decreased IL - 1beta and Cox - 2 expression as well as IL - 17 receptor C ( IL - 17RC ) expression , which were increased in tumors from Apc ( Min / + ) mice .
Sanguinarine induces apoptosis of human osteosarcoma cells through the extrinsic and intrinsic pathways .
Androgen stimulates glycolysis for de novo lipid synthesis by increasing the activities of hexokinase 2 and 6 - phosphofructo - 2 - kinase / fructose - 2 , 6 - bisphosphatase 2 in prostate cancer cells .
There was a significant correlation between eye appraisal and Chalkley counting ( P less than 0 . 0001 ) .
OBJECTIVE : In the present study , we attempted to identify EGFR and TGF - alpha expression and Ki - 67 index in carcinoma ex - pleomorphic adenoma ( Ca ex - PA ) and PA .
Transformed cells exhibited lower levels of RNA as compared with normal fibroblasts .
Also , the grafts maintain a constant volume between 3 and 8 weeks , thereby indicating that primary skin fibroblasts do not produce tumors .
The current data also suggest that administration of antiangiogenic reagents can prevent progression of pulmonary metastasis in osteosarcoma postoperatively .
GDP and AGE receptors : mechanisms of peritoneal damage .
The transplantation of old donor - derived MSCs attenuated apoptosis of cardiomyocytes in the peri - infarct region compared with the control group and the effect was elevated in young donor - derived MSCs ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
In this study , we investigated whether the nuclear transcription factor NF - kappaB , implicated in PC metastasis , is involved in transcriptional regulation and activation of BMP - 2 or BMP - 4 / Smad signaling in PC cells .
Therapeutic angiogenesis : a complex problem requiring a sophisticated approach .
Anagen - associated angiogenesis offers an attractive model for identifying the physiologic controls of cutaneous angiogenesis , and an interesting system for screening the effects of potential antiangiogenic drugs in vivo .
There was a significant correlation between D2 - 40 + LVI and age , t - stage , nodal status , grading and hormonreceptor - status .
Metastatic lesions were confirmed by immunohistochemistry .
The antiproliferative and anti - migratory mechanisms of HTPB were investigated by cell proliferation , flow cytometry , DNA ladder , caspase activity , Rho activity , F - actin polymerization , and gelatin - zymography for matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) .
Cancer is a disease largely dependent on neoangiogenesis .
Finally , CD47 signaling may suppress angiogenesis because 4N1K significantly inhibited endothelial cell migration and tube formation in vitro .
However , during each phase of the disease , low levels of TGF - beta RII were detected when compared with the hematopoietic cells of normal donors .
FM - MSC and BM - MSC both expressed major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) class I but not MHC class II antigens and did not elicit allogeneic lymphocyte proliferation in mixed lymphocyte culture .
uPAR is also coexpressed with caveolin and members of the integrin adhesion receptor superfamily .
Finally , mutating the Sp1 binding sites within the VEGF promoter or inhibiting ERK decreased VEGF promoter activity in M - CSF - treated human monocytes .
Here we provide an overview of the current understanding of the Warburg effect upon tumor cell growth and survival , and discussion on the potential metabolic targets for cancer therapy .
Recent research suggests that EPCs have an important role in tumor vasculogenesis .
Certain carcinostatic agents induce the expression of E - selectin on endothelial cells and enhance the expression of carbohydrate ligands on cancer cells .
BACKGROUND : Neuroblastoma is a childhood tumor that often displays unusual biological behavior .
We have been investigating which coagulation factors simultaneously , or subsequently with platelet aggregation , participate in thrombus formation .
Experiments with a temperature - sensitive mutant of Rous sarcoma virus demonstrated that a single oncogene product is sufficient to inhibit the synthesis .
In contrast , in the presence of GM - CSF or FBS , apoptosis was enhanced upon addition of CHX or Act D .
The induction of aerobic glycolysis is an important component of STAT3 pro - oncogenic activities , since inhibition of STAT3 tyrosine phosphorylation in the tumour cell lines down - regulates glycolysis prior to leading to growth arrest and cell death , both in vitro and in vivo .
Blockade of angiogenesis is an important approach for cancer treatment and prevention .
METHODS : Ovarian cancer SKOV3 cells were transfected with hPNAS - 4 - plasmid , and cell proliferation was evaluated by MTT assay ; apoptosis was examined by DNA ladder , Hoechst33258 staining and flow - cytometric assays .
This sensitization did not occur when T251 - 708 was targeted to the nucleus by inclusion of the SV40 nuclear localization signal .
Pretreatment IL levels were not associated with outcome .
These results suggest that in leukemic cells N - glycosylation of Glut - 1 plays an important role in maintaining its structure and functional integration .
Disruption of AR - ARD1 interactions may be a potent intervention for androgen - dependent PCa therapy .
RESULTS : About 43 % ( 126 of 292 ) of known deregulated genes in TFs were associated with cell proliferation , extracellular matrix remodeling , and immune response .
The inhibition of platelet activation with prostaglandin E1 ( PGE ( 1 ) ) attenuated the invasive capacity of SKOV3 cells .
Little difference was observed in their transforming efficiency ( 0 . 2 - 0 . 3 transformants / micrograms DNA ) between the combinations of oncogenes applied but a tendency was noted that cells transfected with ras or src in combination with myc developed the capacity to grow for a longer period and differentiated at a later stage than those transfected solely with ras or src .
Suppression and re - expression of transformed phenotype in hybrids of HA - ras - 1 - transformed rat - 1 cells and early - passage rat embryonic fibroblasts .
Angiogenesis : initiation and control .
They were consistent with the concept of the existence of 2 pools of both lactate and pyruvate , of which 1 pool was closely connected with exogenous lactate and oxidative metabolism , and the other pool was closely related to glycolysis and disconnected from oxidative metabolism .
Thus , neither the p53 - binding region nor the Bcl - 2 homology region of T antigen was sufficient to prevent cell death induced by the DNA - damaging agent .
These data suggest that VEGF plays a role in the biology of CML and that VEGF inhibitors should be investigated in CML .
FVIIa - induced cell survival correlated with the activation of Akt and was inhibited markedly by the specific PI3 - kinase inhibitor , LY294002 .
Furthermore , ubiquitination of cellular proteins was elevated in VHL - deficient cells , particularly after glucose deprivation , supporting a role for the VHL gene in ubiquitin - mediated proteolysis .
Based on our results , we hypothesize that FGFR2 ( + ) - TFs might provide cancer cells with a suitable microenvironment via secretion of proteins that could promote cancer development and progression through stimulation of cancer cell proliferation , induction of angiogenesis , inhibition of cell adhesion , enhancement of cell mobility , and promotion of the epithelial - mesenchymal transition .
Effect of transplanted mesenchymal stem cells from rats of different ages on the improvement of heart function after acute myocardial infarction .
Mutation positive GIST showed higher frequency of adjacent tissue invasion , metastasis and recurrence as compared with mutation negative ones .
Furthermore , this decreased expression was also observed in the other myeloproliferative disorders , polycythemia rubra vera ( PRV ) and essential thrombocythemia ( ET ) .
Key players in this process are the hypoxia - inducible factors ( HIF - 1alpha to 3alpha ) .
[ Expression of Merlin protein in non - small cell lung carcinoma and the clinical significance ] .
The human T - cell leukemia viruses HTLV - I and HTLV - II are unique among the transforming retroviruses of vertebrates in their ability to transform human T cells in vitro and in their close association with human malignancies ( T - cell lymphomas and leukemia ) .
From mechanisms to therapy and prevention .
The results imply that various different proteins may lead to HCC metastasis together .
Intramolecular self - phosphorylation of Tyr1173 removes a competitive inhibitory constraint to enhance phosphorylation of substrates .
To investigate how CSC contribute to tumor vascular development , we used an approach comparing tumor xenografts of the C6 glioma cell line containing either a low or a high fraction of CSC .
Upon initiation of angiogenesis with basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) on the chick chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) , endothelial cell mitogen - activated protein ( MAP ) kinase ( ERK ) activity was detected as early as 5 min yet was sustained for at least 20 h .
Fluorescence - activated cell sorter analysis showed that isolated tumor ECs have suppressed levels of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 as compared with ECs from normal mouse tissues .
There was no difference in fat encapsulation , necrosis , hemorrhage , or exudate between prostheses .
Utilizing antibody raised against the purified human erythrocyte glucose transporter , we have identified the glucose transporter as a membrane glycoprotein with a monomer Mr of approximately 41 , 000 .
Significant differences were found between the control and experimental fat pads with regard to weight and length .
The introduction of mutations into the T - antigen J domain resulted in mutation - specific and variable inhibition of apoptosis .
A vascular permeability enhancement ( VPE ) assay was performed using guinea pigs to ascertain whether supernatant from cultures of Ve - and OMP - stimulated HGF enhance vascular permeability in vivo .
RESULTS : A total of 13 PCNSLs ( 31 % ) demonstrated hypermethylation in either the promoter or exon 1 ; loss of HRK expression was immunohistochemically observed in 9 tumors and was significantly associated with promoter methylation .
Recently , it was repeatedly demonstrated that statins , competitive inhibitors of 3 - hydroxy - 3 - methyl glutaryl coenzyme A ( HMG - CoA ) reductase , have antineoplastic effects .
RAGE ( receptor for AGE ) is the best characterized signal transduction receptor for AGEs and is expressed on mesothelial cells .
However , it is completely absent from cells transformed by the oncogene v - myc or v - src and from cells derived from a methylcholanthrene - induced fibrosarcoma .
Thrombospondin - 2 plays a protective role in multistep carcinogenesis : a novel host anti - tumor defense mechanism .
An image analysis system was also used to quantify the proportion of tumor nuclei with MDM2 staining ( ACIS index ) and staining intensity .
Tetracyclines are antimicrobial agents that can suppress MP activity in a variety of tissues , including gingiva , bone , and cartilage .
Estradiol increases IL - 8 secretion of normal human breast tissue and breast cancer in vivo .
Combination therapy targets both lymphocytes and macrophages , and is more effective in reducing tumor than either therapy alone .
A novel putative tyrosine kinase receptor with oncogenic potential .
METHODS : We assessed antiapoptotic and proapoptotic markers in vascular and perivascular cells in lung biopsy samples from 18 patients with CHD , 7 with reversible and 11 with irreversible PHT , and 6 control patients .
Molecular and cell - physiological analyses have improved the understanding of tumour biology and provide the opportunity for new therapeutic approaches .
The effects of radiation on neovascularization in a rat model .
The authors concluded that , as also in the study of Northern blotting , the expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA significantly correlated inversely with lymph node metastasis in CBM , while the expression of nm23 - H2 mRNA not .
Therefore , we have identified a novel role for PSMA as a true molecular interface , integrating both extracellular and intracellular signals during angiogenesis .
alpha - MSH alone had little effect , whereas coincubation with IL - 1 beta led to marked downregulation of IL - 8 secretion ( at most 288 + / - 152 ng / mL ) when compared to treatment with IL - 1 beta alone ( 919 + / - 157 ng / mL ) .
Enhanced expression of vascular endothelial growth factor by periodontal pathogens in gingival fibroblasts .
The degree of corneal infiltration , ulceration , corneal clouding , hypopyon , conjunctivitis , neovascularization , and corneal perforation was monitored over a 24 - day period , as well as recultivation and resistance to fluconazole of the C . albicans pathogen .
Although some recent reports suggest that microvessel counts in non - small cell lung cancer are related to a poor disease outcome , the results were not conclusive and were not compared with other molecular prognostic markers .
Anti - transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - beta antibodies inhibit breast cancer cell tumorigenicity and increase mouse spleen natural killer cell activity .
A series of epithelial cell lines and a single fibroblast cell line established in this way were analysed for the presence of transforming genes by DNA transfection into NIH3T3 cells .
Here , we investigate the role of TSP - 1 in tumor - stroma reaction , which is mainly characterized by fibroblast activation to create a permissive microenvironment for tumor progression .
Fibroblast growth factor - 2 ( FGF - 2 ) has been reported to play multiple roles in different biological processes during development of the central nervous system ( CNS ) .
Because the identity of pulmonary endothelial SOCs is unknown , but mammalian homologues of the Drosophila melanogaster transient receptor potential ( trp ) gene have been proposed to form Ca2 + entry channels in nonexcitable cells , we performed RT - PCR using Trp oligonucleotide primers in both rat and human pulmonary arterial endothelial cells .
Thus , vimentin expression may be helpful in identifying a substantial subset of ER - independent breast carcinomas with poor prognostic indicators .
Coronary collateral circulation ( CCC ) was analyzed according to the Rentrop system .
Mast cells and tumors .
The structure of the myc gene has been elucidated from studies on translocated versions of the gene .
Although the increase in p53 levels could be a secondary by - product of the transformed state , it is equally possible that p53 is actively involved in altering cellular growth properties , especially as it has been implicated in the regulation of normal cell proliferation .
ACA treatment resulted in changes in morphology and a dose - dependent suppression of cell viability .
This reduction disappeared with increasing distance from the tumor .
In colonic carcinoma specimens , the peritumoral vessels expressed a high density of somatostatin receptors , whereas the neoplastic tissue itself was receptor - negative in many cases .
This induction was due to activation of autophagic flux , as there was further increase in LC3 - II expression upon treatment with lysosomal inhibitors , clear decline of the autophagy substrate p62 , and an mRFP - GFP - LC3 fluorescence change in sorafenib - treated hepatoma cells .
METHODS : A clinicopathologic data review was performed in 60 patients with PTMC treated with total thyroidectomies involving neck dissections .
VEGF165 mediates formation of complexes containing VEGFR - 2 and neuropilin - 1 that enhance VEGF165 - receptor binding .
CONCLUSION : Calretinin is a very useful marker for positive identification of normal and tumor mesothelial cells in serous effusions .
P18 increased the production of CD95 ligand and reduced the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 by the endothelial cells in vivo .
One cell line ( ESM - 1 ) derived from the erythrophores transfected with src / myc grew successively over nine months , indicating its acquisition of immortality .
Using a Matrigel plug - based model , in vivo angiogenesis was restricted with STX243 and STX140 ( 50 and 72 % , respectively , using a 10 mg kg ( - 1 ) oral dose ) , thereby showing the antiangiogenic activity of both compounds .
The role of p53 in pigmentation , tanning and melanoma .
In a second step , these parameters were further analyzed by hierarchical cluster analyses .
Human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) and rat aorta smooth muscle cells ( RASMCs ) infected with AdCMV . VEGF165 ( 5 and 20 plaque - forming units [ pfu ] per cell ) demonstrated VEGF mRNA expression and protein secretion into the supernatant .
It was suggested that UFT has a stronger angiogenesis - inhibitory effect than did other fluorinated pyrimidines , partly due to its pharmacokinetic properties characterized by maintaining of higher and long - lasting blood levels of 5 - FU and partly due the inhibitory effects derived from gamma - hydroxybutyric acid and gamma - butyrolactone , UFT - specific metabolites .
Possible role of cyclooxygenase II in the acquisition of ovarian luteal function in rodents .
These data provide the first demonstration of IGF - I / II expression in the human lung in early gestation and indicate that the IGF family of growth factors , acting through the IGF - IR , is required as a survival factor during normal human lung vascularization .
Proliferative diabetic retinopathy is associated with a low level of the natural ocular anti - angiogenic agent pigment epithelium - derived factor ( PEDF ) in aqueous humor .
When the two groups were compared with respect to poor and good CCC , poor CCC was higher in patients with PDR ( 64 vs . 36 % , respectively , p = 0 . 01 ) .
Oxygent perfusion medium increased the TET epithelial PtO ( 2 ) ( 51 . 2 + / - 0 . 3 mm Hg vs . 33 . 4 + / - 0 . 3 mm Hg at 200 microm thickness ; 12 . 5 + / - 0 . 1 mm Hg vs . 3 . 1 + / - 0 . 1 mm Hg at 400 microm thickness , p less than 0 . 01 ) and decreased the lactate concentration ( 0 . 63 + / - 0 . 08 vs . 0 . 80 + / - 0 . 06 mmol / L , p less than 0 . 05 ) , lactate / pyruvate ( 1 . 87 + / - 0 . 26 vs . 3 . 36 + / - 10 . 13 , p less than 0 . 05 ) , and lactate / glucose ratios ( 0 . 10 + / - 0 . 00 vs . 0 . 29 + / - 0 . 14 , p less than 0 . 05 ) .
To understand the mechanisms behind these processes , we have examined the effect of FVIIa on apoptosis .
Our purpose was to examine human colon cancers for inactivation of two candidate metastasis suppressor genes , nm23 - H1 and nm23 - H2 , either by mutation or by loss of gene transcription .
Immunoblotting and immunostaining studies demonstrated an upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) mostly along the endothelium lining peritoneal blood vessels in long - term PD patients .
Arterial pressure and cardiac output were unchanged .
This review provides basic information for the understanding of the biology of NF - kappaB and aims at presenting experimental data illustrating the involvement of NF - kappaB / Rel in pancreatic cancer .
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of doxorubicin in Hct - 116 human colon carcinoma cells in order to clarify if a time / concentration range for optimal doxorubicin - induced apoptosis exists .
In parallel , we assessed several human melanoma biopsy samples and found again that AKT2 was the predominantly activated AKT in these human melanoma biopsies .
Akt knockdown and an mTOR inhibitor revealed the importance of the Akt / mTOR pathway in the postirradiation accumulation of HIF - 1alpha .
A preponderance of work has been focused on the molecular mechanisms underlying this effect , with the expectation that a mechanistic understanding may lead to novel therapeutic approaches .
Blockade of PAF - R by WEB - 2170 , a PAF - R antagonist , abolished the CD154 - dependent motility , indicating a role for PAF synthesized after CD154 stimulation in renal carcinoma cell motility .
Five patients are still responding to therapy .
Here , HGF stimulation of melanocytes was seen to up - regulate c - Met expression .
SWAP - 70 is required for oncogenic transformation by v - Src in mouse embryo fibroblasts .
Induction of Id - 1 by FGF - 2 involves activity of EGR - 1 and sensitizes neuroblastoma cells to cell death .
HKa and D5 reduce the localization of paxillin to the focal adhesions after S1P and VEGF stimulation .
The treatment of ovarian cancer cells with luteinizing hormone , follicle - stimulating hormone , and estrogen induced a significant upregulation of SEMA3B , whereas SEMA3F was upregulated only by estrogen .
The loss of one allele of the p53 gene ( located on chromosome 17p13 ) occurred in at least 6 ( 60 % ) of the 10 patients who were heterozygous at the p53 locus .
Here , the pattern of expression of angiogenin during the transition from normal breast tissue to ductal carcinoma in situ and invasive carcinoma is reported together with the correlates between the level of angiogenin in 239 invasive carcinomas and standard clinicopathological parameters , hypoxia - inducible factor ( HIF ) - 1 alpha and the HIF - 1 alpha target gene DEC - 1 .
Increased apoptosis of tumor cells and decreased angiogenesis in tumor tissue were also observed .
These are exciting new functions of vitamins that nobody could have predicted only a few years ago .
PATIENTS AND METHODS : Twenty - one patients with radiation retinopathy ( edema , hemorrhages , capillary dropout , and neovascularization ) and a subjective or objective loss of vision were treated .
Here we show that GR activation leads to both the rapid induction of MAPK phosphatase - 1 ( MKP - 1 ) mRNA and its sustained expression .
Adult rat urothelial cells were transformed in vitro following treatment with a single dose of N - methyl - N - nitrosourea ( MNU ) or MNU treatment followed by promotion with sodium saccharin .
Caffeine inhibits adenosine - induced accumulation of hypoxia - inducible factor - 1alpha , vascular endothelial growth factor , and interleukin - 8 expression in hypoxic human colon cancer cells .
In summary , these novel studies identify and characterize a marked glucose - modulated activation response of the type II hexokinase gene to hypoxic conditions within highly glycolytic hepatoma cells , a property that may help assure that such cells exhibit a growth and survival advantage over their parental cells of origin .
No CDC4 / FBXW7 mutations were found and loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 did not correlate with ploidy status .
Consistent with these findings is the induction under hypoxic conditions of the HIF - 1 protein .
When tumor cells possessed a high level of UK , laminin and type IV collagen , components of the basement membrane , disappeared from tumor tissues .
Recent evidence suggests an association of these polymorphisms with an increased risk of cervical cancer , so we explored this relationship .
Here we review and comment on these findings and on their implications for cancer biology .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is an angiogenic stimulator which functions through two endothelial specific tyrosine kinase receptors , Flt - 1 and Flk - 1 .
Recently , overexpression of EphA2 , a member of the Eph family of receptor tyrosine kinases , has been reported in several cancers .
Additional rats underwent partial hepatectomy , an immunosuppressive procedure known to accelerate the growth of hepatic tumor , following tumor challenge .
These results suggest that SWAP - 70 may be required for oncogenic transformation and contributes to cell growth in MEFs transformed by v - Src .
To test this hypothesis , the frequency of metastasis to the lung as a function of allergic pulmonary inflammation was assessed following the i . v . injection of B16 - F10 melanoma cells in mice .
Moreover , there is a positive correlation between phosphoS727 - Stat3 expression and Gleason score in these prostate cancer tissues ( P = 0 . 05 ) .
BACKGROUND : Impaired expression of E - cadherin and alpha - and beta - catenin is frequently observed in several human cancers .
PEDF was found to be decreased in diabetics ( mean values : 2080 vs . 5780 ng / ml ; p = 0 . 04 ) compared to controls .
These results suggest that overexpression of PLD isozymes may play an important role in neoplastic transformation .
This usually involves screening of potential anti - angiogenic compounds on endothelial cells .
Interestingly , the high glutamine uptake was maintained in the presence of glucose .
Tumors are tissue - specific diseases , and their mechanisms of invasion and metastasis are highly diverse .
[ Ambiguity role of neutrophils in oncogenesis ]
Randomized , open label , prospective study on the effect of zoledronic acid on the prevention of bone metastases in patients with recurrent solid tumors that did not present with bone metastases at baseline .
Under similar conditions , both uninfected HUVECs and HUVECs infected with AdCMV . beta gal did not differentiate .
A diagnosis of advanced gastric cancer with extensive lymph node metastases and multiple pulmonary metastases was made .
Identification of naturally occurring VEGF inhibitors derived from diet would be one alternative approach with an advantage of known safety .
Our aim was to compare the angiogenesis associated with subcutaneous adipose tissue ( SAT ) and visceral adipose tissue ( VAT ) from the same obese patients in an in vivo model .
PURPOSE : Angiogenesis is increased in aggressive histology non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma and may be a target with selective cyclooxygenase - 2 inhibition and metronomic chemotherapy .
s - VEGF in peripheral blood samples was analyzed in 40 RCC patients and 40 patients without cancer ( controls ) using a sandwich enzyme - linked immunoassay .
Compared with CSC - low tumors , CSC - high tumors exhibited increased microvessel density and blood perfusion and induced increased mobilization and tumor recruitment of bone marrow - derived endothelial progenitor cells ( EPC ) .
Mast cell heparin stimulates migration of capillary endothelial cells in vitro .
Interestingly , significant associations were found between CYR61 expression versus tumor grade , pathology , gender , and age at diagnosis .
RESULTS : Both inhibition of proliferation ( p < 0 . 05 ) and induction of apoptosis ( p < 0 . 05 ) were observed in SKOV3 cells transfected with hPNAS - 4 - p in vitro .
For efficacy studies , nude mice bearing orthotopically implanted tumors derived from breast cancer cell line MDA - MB - 435 were treated with galectin - 3C or a vehicle control i . m . twice daily for 90 days .
Although several hypotheses for human carcinogenesis have been proposed , the specific genetic changes that cause normal cells to become cancer cells have not been identified .
RAF265 also inhibited FDG accumulation in tumor xenografts after 1 day of drug treatment .
Eight founder and progeny mice of 5 different lines were monitored for leukemogenesis .
Silencing of directional migration in roundabout4 knockdown endothelial cells .
Targeting glucose consumption and autophagy in myeloma with the novel nucleoside analogue 8 - aminoadenosine .
Systematic proteomic studying of the mechanism of hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) metastasis remains challenging .
Single conditional knockouts for Smad1 or Smad5 or mice homozygous null for Smad8 are viable and fertile .
Each bone was placed in masseter muscle separately .
Binding studies with SPARC and SPARC peptides indicate specific and saturable interaction with smooth muscle cells that involves the C - terminal Ca2 + - binding region of the protein .
Effects of dietary folate on ulcerative colitis - associated colorectal carcinogenesis in the interleukin 2 - and beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin - deficient mice .
METHODS : We used ribonuclease protection assays to analyze human colon tumors for the level of nm23 - H1 ( 43 samples ) and nm23 - H2 ( 41 samples ) transcript ( mRNA ) expression and the presence of mutations that could inactivate potential suppressor function .
The deficiency in the p53 - mediated regulation of glycolysis and mitochondrial respiration greatly accounts for the deficient respiration of the predominance of aerobic glycolysis in cancer cells ( the Warburg effect ) , while the deficiency in the p53 - modulated antioxidant defense mechanisms contributes to mutagenesis and additionally boosts the carcinogenesis process .
Furthermore , we investigated the correlation between CXCR4 expression and the clinical features of 221 gastric cancer tissue samples .
a pilot study .
Each consists of repetitive cycles of interaction with adjacent extracellular matrix components by mediating cellular adhesion , matrix dissolution , and cellular motility to achieve metastasis of cancer cells or neovascularization of tumors .
No significant association was also observed between nm23 - H1 gene product expression in lymph nodes and the patients survival .
MATERIAL AND METHODS : Human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVEC ) were treated with cisplatin and endothelial cell migration analyzed by fluorescence and scratch - wound migration assay .
The resulting clusters were correlated to patients with or without lymph node involvement .
In contrast , cancer cells depend mostly on glycolysis , the aerobic breakdown of glucose into ATP .
Collagen - poly glycolic acid hybrid matrix with basic fibroblast growth factor accelerated angiogenesis and granulation tissue formation in diabetic mice .
Our study indicates that 1 ) Ca2 + entry in pulmonary endothelial cells through SOCs produces cell shape change that is dependent on site - specific rearrangement of the microfilamentous cytoskeleton and 2 ) Trp1 may be a component of pulmonary endothelial SOCs .
In this review , we will discuss the current knowledge of MTSS1 ' s role in cancer metastasis , carcinogenesis , and development .
The number of retinal vascular findings was not significantly correlated with serous elevation of the retina .
p53 is a protein with many talents .
In humans with AMD , MCs accumulated in the subretinal space at sites of retinal degeneration and choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) is a vascular growth factor which induces angiogenesis ( the development of new blood vessels ) , vascular permeability , and inflammation .
Presence of 2 - DG ( 5 mM ) for 2 - 4 h inhibited the glucose usage and lactate production by 70 % in spheroids , while a 35 % reduction was observed in monolayer cells .
Our data suggest that VEGFR2 - mediated regulation of endothelial function is dependent on different but specific Rab - mediated GTP hydrolysis activity required for endosomal trafficking .
High - affinity binding is reduced in EGFR . TDM / 18 - 26 , although the t1 / 2 of receptor internalization is not prolonged .
There was no correlation of survivin with bcl - 2 or bax expression , or with other prognostic parameters ( age , tumor size , histologic type , histologic grade , nodal status , and tumor stage ) ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
These results indicate that Ets - 1 is induced in ECs after denudation through activation of p38 .
Little is known about the specificity of angiogenic properties of oral cancer cells and the possible mechanisms .
The necessity of Crk in ephrin - B1 - induced membrane ruffling was shown both by the overexpression of dominant negative Crk mutants and by the depletion of Crk by using RNA interference .
Hedgehog signaling in the murine melanoma microenvironment .
p53 mutation heterogeneity in cancer .
Marrow cells survived and continued exogenous hemopoiesis for up to six months and were immunohistochemically reactive to basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) .
There is only one prior report describing rofecoxib treatment in a single haemophilia patient .
These properties make such agents potentially useful as adjunctive therapy in haemophilia .
Grossly , the tumour showed a haemorrhagic cut surface with numerous microcystic structures .
RESULTS : AQP1 , 3 - 5 , and 10 - 12 were expressed in human breast cancer and / or normal breast tissues , and AQP1 and 3 - 5 exhibited differential expression .
A vascular prosthesis needs angiogenesis for endothelialization of the luminal surface , as endothelial cells have natural and permanent antithrombogenic properties .
The effect of wild - type or mutant survivin was investigated on capillary network stability , endothelial cell viability , and caspase activation in vitro and on kinetics of tumor growth and development of angiogenesis in a breast cancer xenograft model in vivo .
These data suggest that c - FLIP may play a critical role in regulating Fas - mediated apoptosis in prostate cancer cells and that modulation of c - FLIP may enhance Fas signaling based therapies .
The MVD and Ki - 67 LI were significantly higher ( p less than 0 . 01 and p less than 0 . 001 ) , and the AI was significantly lower ( p less than 0 . 001 ) in the SCC with p53 protein expression than in the SCC without it .
sVAP - 1 is also an independent predictive marker for lymph node metastasis .
CONCLUSIONS : Intravitreal bevacizumab can be used to treat radiation retinopathy .
Restriction fragment length polymorphism studies demonstrated that the loss of one copy of portions of chromosome 17 occurred in 10 ( 53 % ) of the 19 patients .
PURPOSE : To evaluate alterations in the retinal vasculature overlying pigment epithelial detachments ( PED ) in exudative age - related macular degeneration ( ARMD ) using indocyanine green and fluorescein angiography .
The in vivo properties of STX243 : a potent angiogenesis inhibitor in breast cancer .
We further show that down - regulation of caspase 3 via overexpression of RASSF1C reduces breast cancer cells ' sensitivity to the apoptosis inducing agent , etoposide .
BX471 ( R - N - [ 5 - chloro - 2 - [ 2 - [ 4 ( 4 - fluorophenyl ) methyl ] - 2 - methyl - 1 - piperazinyl ] - 2 - oxoethoxy ] phenyl ] urea hydrochloric acid salt ) , a CCR1 antagonist , inhibits angiogenic properties of CCL16 , whereas blocking of CCR8 or desensitizing CCR2 , which are both well known receptors for CCL16 , did not abolish endothelial activation .
Neoplastic progression of human colorectal cancer is associated with overexpression of the stromelysin - 3 and BM - 40 / SPARC genes .
TC - PTP PTPase expression was only slightly increased in these neu transformed cells , and no expression of CD45 PTPase was observed .
Although insulin sensitivity of skeletal muscle was also reduced in patients with lymphoma , the net insulin effect may counteract imbalance between glucose uptake of tumor and muscle , offering a potential means to circumvent at least some metabolic abnormalities found in cancer .
Treatment with suberoylanilide hydroxamide ( SAHA ) , a histone deacetylase ( HDAC ) inhibitor , causes dose - dependent hTERT reporter activation , mimicking HMGA2 overexpression .
Applying cell immunohistochemistry and RT - PCR , we further validated two interesting and different proteins , annexin1 and S100A4 .
TIMP2 and TIMP3 play functional role in LPA - induced invasion as negative regulators .
These data highlight the importance of a balanced proteolysis and suggest an additional role for PAI - 1 distinct from its role in proteolysis .
In seven diabetic patients with proliferative retinopathy , the most profound finding was a significant decrease of the PEDF level ( mean value : 237 ng / ml ) , whereas VEGF levels were comparable to diabetic patients without proliferation ( mean value : 3153 ; p = 0 . 003 ) .
Regulation of tumor angiogenesis by thrombospondin - 1 .
The systemic increase in bFGF and MMP - 1 might reflect an increased local stimulation of angiogenesis during distraction osteogenesis .
However , its widespread application has been hampered by difficulties in the large - scale production of the antiangiogenic proteins .
Besides their direct toxicity GDPs promote formation of advanced glycation endproducts ( AGEs ) .
Magnitude of malate - aspartate reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide shuttle activity in intact respiring tumor cells .
There is also an implicit assumption that a mechanistic understanding , although fundamentally reductionist , will nonetheless lead to a more profound teleological understanding of the need for altered metabolism in invasive cancers .
In the present study , we applied the alginate implant angiogenesis model in mice with normal ANG II levels , elevated ANG II levels by transgenic overexpression of angiotensinogen ( AOGEN ) , or in AT2 receptor - deficient mice .
RESULTS : The OSCC samples had an average h - MVD score of 27 . 7 / mm ( 2 ) .
A major step forwards in the treatment of solid tumors is the recognition of the tumor - associated vasculature as an important target for therapy .
The aptamer - induced dimerization and inactivation of M2 - PK led to a significant decrease in the PK mass - action ratio as well as ATP : ADP ratio in the target cells .
The frequency of COX - 2 and PPARgamma detection was significantly increased and decreased as lesions progressed to carcinoma , respectively .
Angiogenesis associated with visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissue in severe human obesity .
Daily i . p . injections of HAH - cortisol into mice bearing s . c . sponge implants retarded vascularization of the sponge , and injections directly into the sponge abolished vascularization for as long as the injections were continued .
However , the mechanism of action and the efficiency in inducing apoptosis of these two proteins are not similar .
It is hypothesized that the NO derived from inducible NOS ( iNOS ) may promote survival of ischemic tissue through angiogenesis .
Coexpression of vascular endothelial growth factor and p53 protein in squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus .
These findings indicate that vGPCR may play a key role in Kaposi ' s sarcoma progression and provide experimental justification for developing molecular - based therapies specifically targeting vGPCR and its effectors for the treatment of Kaposi ' s sarcoma patients .
RESULTS : All patients completed therapy and tolerability was good .
Hypoxia - activated functional HIF - 1 protein binds to hypoxia - responsive elements ( HRE ) in the enhancers of several genes including VEGF , the major player in angiogenesis , and initiates their mRNA expression .
Subsequently this activity was separated into TGFbeta and TGFalpha an EGF receptor ligand .
In oral cancers , cytoplasmic BAG - 1 overexpression is a marker of poor prognosis .
Furthermore melanoma cells transfected with a uPA variant , which had an impaired interaction with PAI - 1 , were not invasive and had impaired binding to vitronectin .
Recently VEGF - B and VEGF - C , two new VEGF family members , have been identified that bind to the tyrosine kinase receptors flt - 1 ( VEGFR1 ) , KDR ( VEGFR2 ) , and flt - 4 ( VEGFR3 ) .
Choroidal hyperpermeability was reduced in every case .
After IL - 1Ra treatment of GK rats in vivo , most selected genes implied in endothelium / OS / immune cells / fibrosis were significantly down - regulated .
The effect of perfluorocarbon - based artificial oxygen carriers on tissue - engineered trachea .
Nineteen ( 79 % ) putative NK - cell lymphomas expressed perforin , and all 24 cases expressed granzyme B9 and TIA1 .
RESULTS : MCT 1 and 2 were the primary isoforms expressed in human glioblastoma multiforme and glioma - derived cell lines .
Analysis of the stability of HAH - cortisol showed that it was stable at pH 7 . 4 and broke down rapidly ( t1 / 2 15 min ) at pH 4 . 8 at 37 degrees C .
Treatment of stage IV colorectal cancer is based on the type of prior therapy and patient - specific factors .
In contrast , abnormal staining was frequently found even in intramucosal carcinoma of undifferentiated - type tumours , suggesting an apparent difference in the onset of E - cadherin - catenin complex abnormality between the two cancer types .
We now report direct evidence that N1 ( ic ) must accumulate in the nucleus to induce transformation of RKE cells .
Inhibition of NF - kappaB significantly reduced transcript levels and autocrine production of BMP - 2 by rhTNF - alpha stimulated C4 - 2B cells and to a lesser extent by the parental LNCaP cells .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , an endothelial cell - specific mitogen , can act in tumor - induced angiogenesis by binding to specific receptors on the surface of endothelial cells .
Our results suggest that TEL acts as a tumor suppressor , in part , by transcriptional repression of stromelysin - 1 .
These results show that magnolol initiates apoptosis via the cytochrome - c / caspase 3 / PARP / AIF and PTEN / Akt / caspase 9 / PARP pathways and necrosis via PARP activation .
Outcomes measures included transcutaneous blood gas levels , histology , total RNA content and analysis of alpha2 ( I ) collagen ( COL - I ) , type IV collagen ( COL - IV ) , alpha1 ( V ) collagen ( COL - V ) , and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression using real - time quantitative PCR .
To grow , invade and metastasize , a treacherous society between cancer and host cells must be formed , and this association provides novel and effective clinical targets for cancer control and prevention .
Acquired molecular abnormalities ( mutations or chromosomal translocations ) of the RUNX1 transcription factor gene are frequent in acute myeloblastic leukemias ( AMLs ) and in therapy - related myelodysplastic syndromes , but rarely in acute lymphoblastic leukemias ( ALLs ) and chronic myelogenous leukemias ( CMLs ) .
Electrophoretic mobility shift assays showed that the oligonucleotides containing the WT1 motifs could bind recombinant WT1 proteins .
Interestingly , the neutralization of beta ( 1 ) or the inactivation of PAK increases PSMA activity , suggesting that they negatively regulate PSMA .
Glutathione supplementation reversed the inhibitory effects of EPOX on ERK , which increases the phosphorylation of Mcl - 1 at T ( 163 . ) Overexpression of mitogen - activated protein / ERK kinase ( MEK ) partially reversed the effect of EPOX on Mcl - 1 dephosphorylation , ubiquitination , and degradation , further implicating ERK in the regulation of Mcl - 1 stability .
DMI is suggested to inhibit the growth of Ca3 / 7 cells and to affect GR - mediated transcription .
In vitro and in vivo studies with losartan , small interfering RNA specific for calcineurin and FK506 demonstrated that Ang II - mediated sFlt - 1 release was via Ang II type 1 receptor activation and calcineurin signaling , respectively .
In addition to having a direct effect on tumor cells , vitamins such as alpha - tocopheryl succinate and beta - carotene enhance the effect of other agents that induce differentiation in tumor cells .
The proliferative effects of 20 - HETE were markedly inhibited by a VEGF - neutralizing antibody .
RESULTS : Fifty - one percent of patients with RDEB had elevated levels ( greater than 5000 pg / g ) of urinary bFGF .
In addition to direct effects on mammary epithelial cells , including decreased proliferation and induction of apoptosis , CLA may exert its effects indirectly by inhibiting the differentiation of mammary stromal cells to an endothelial cell type .
The disintegrin - like and cysteine - rich domains of ADAM - 9 mediate interactions between melanoma cells and fibroblasts .
These results indicate a possible role of L - NAME for the treatment of solid tumours in a systemic or regional setting .
The host and tumor sensitivities to insulin are critical for such treatments , which aim to improve patient nutrition .
Therefore , we next examined the effect of DMI on Ca3 / 7 cells , resistant to growth inhibition by the synthetic glucocorticoid fluocinolone acetonide ( FA ) .
AIM : Approximately 40 - 60 % of melanomas from Caucasian populations carry activating mutations in the BRAF oncogene , with the most common being the p . Val600Glu ( V600E ) hotspot mutation in exon 15 .
VEGF is the key player in tumor angiogenesis .
Mouse p10 , an alternative spliced form of p15INK4b , inhibits cell cycle progression and malignant transformation .
This primitive vascular network is extensively remodeled in some places , and expanded by sprouting in others .
Additionally , impaired placental angiogenesis and uteroplacental blood flow appears to be an early defect in both the hyperthermic and adolescent paradigms .
The aim of this study was to compare the effects of PRP and platelet - poor plasma ( PPP ) on healing of critical - size bone defects . Bilateral full - thickness , critical - size bone defects were created in the parietal bones of 32 rabbits , which had been studied in 4 groups .
Measuring ouabain - sensitive 22Na efflux and using ouabain - sensitive lactate production as a measure of ATP hydrolysis by the Na + K + pump , it was shown that Nonidet P - 40 greatly decreased the efficiency of the Na + K + pump .
These observations suggest that stem / progenitor cells in the mammary gland may be especially susceptible to oncogenic transformation .
Excessive vascular development and blood vessel remodeling appears in psoriasis , rheumatoid arthritis , diabetic retinopathy and solid tumors formation .
Acute ethanol exposure disrupts VEGF receptor cell signaling in endothelial cells .
In vivo , cediranib ( 6 mg / kg / d ) prevented angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis induced by VEGF - E - expressing and VEGF - C156S - expressing adenoviruses , respectively .
Furthermore , i . p . treatment with Hyp reduces acute PMN recruitment and enhances resolution in a pulmonary bleomycin - induced inflammation model , significantly reducing consequent fibrosis .
Roles of brca2 ( fancd1 ) in oocyte nuclear architecture , gametogenesis , gonad tumors , and genome stability in zebrafish .
Growth inhibition correlated with decreased cellular proliferation and extensive necrosis , and it was accompanied by a decrease in tumor mean vessel density as well as a reduction in serum expression of angioproliferative cytokines .
CXCR4 transcripts and proteins were detectable in all five gastric cancer cell lines .
All of these parameters were reduced by the COX - II inhibitors , suggesting that changes in the vasculature are responsible for the decrease in serum progesterone .
In the distraction group , a significant postoperative increase in MMP - 1 , bFGF , ALP , and BAP could be observed during the lengthening and the consolidation period when compared with the baseline levels .
These angiogenic activities are neutralized by a specific antibody against CCL16 .
It was found that wild - type ( wt ) SVLT strongly inhibited the terminal differentiation of mouse C2 myoblasts , but this arrest occurred only after the synthesis of myogenin , an initial step in biochemical differentiation .
These accelerated relapses occur within 10 months of surgery for untreated patients .
The expression of PTEN mRNA and protein was negatively correlated with lymph node metastasis of advanced gastric carcinomas ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
These findings indicated that DATS inhibits tumor growth in an allograft animal model .
Concomitantly , immunostaining for apoptosis inducing factor ( AIF ) showed a time - dependent translocation from the mitochondria to the nucleus .
This desensitization was without effect upon the concentration causing half - maximal effect ( EC50 ) , dissociation constant ( Kd ) or number of PGF2 alpha receptors .
This study indicated that urine IL - 8 / Cr levels might be useful as a diagnostic marker of NHL .
p53 and PCNA status do not appear to influence topo I expression , and topo I has no apparent association with the acquisition of a metastatic phenotype .
Immunostaining and Western blot revealed a more significant PTEN downregulation in PTEN - methylated CCMs in comparison to PTEN - unmethylated CCMs .
CONCLUSIONS : This study has identified that the MMP / TIMP profile is an independent indicator of poor prognosis in colorectal cancer .
Consequently , we examined by immunohistochemistry , using the avidin - biotin - peroxidase method , Bcl - xL , Bax , and p53 expression in 56 samples of primary oral squamous cell carcinoma and in 22 matched pairs of primary and metastatic tumors .
Villani et al . define a key role for the IGF regulatory protein Igfbp2 in a genetic model of basal cell carcinogenesis driven by targeted constitutive activation of hedgehog signaling .
The expression of NP - 1 , NP - 2 , and plexin - A1 was not altered in human ovarian surface epithelial and ovarian cancer cells .
However , the expression of nm23 - H1 gene product in the metastatic sites have not been studied in detail .
This increase was dependent on CD4 ( + ) T - cell activities ; however , it occurred independent of the induced eosinophilia associated with allergen provocation .
Treated animals also displayed a 2 . 4 - fold reduction of tumor vascular endothelial growth factor mRNA levels .
Cyclin - dependent kinase - 2 activity , p107 and cyclin A levels , and retinoblastoma protein phosphorylation are markedly reduced in response to the addition of exogenous SPARC and / or peptides derived from specific domains of SPARC .
It activated multicaspases , and increased the activities of caspase - 8 and caspase - 9 in both MG - 63 and SaOS - 2 cells .
These events are associated with a short survival and support the concept of a cooperative effect of BCR - ABL with molecular RUNX1 abnormalities on the differentiation arrest phenotype observed during progression of CML and in BCR - ABL + ALL .
Furthermore , beclin 1 heterozygous disruption results in increased cellular proliferation and reduced autophagy in vivo .
However , this modular protein core also binds with relatively high affinity to a number of growth factors and surface receptors , thereby stabilizing cell - matrix links .
Human papillomavirus oncoprotein E6 inactivates the transcriptional coactivator human ADA3 .
In the presence of high levels of VEGF , Ang - 2 also promotes rapid increase in capillary diameter , remodeling of the basal lamina , proliferation and migration of endothelial cells , and stimulates sprouting of new blood vessels .
Hypermethylation of the HRK promoter alone was not associated with overall outcome , but relapse - free survival was significantly shorter .
The metastatic potentials of several human prostate cancer xenograft models , LAPC - 4 , LAPC - 9 , PC3 and CWR22Rv - 1 were compared .
To induce capillary growth into the graft , we developed a method of transplanting bone marrow cells , which are primitive , strong enough to survive , and create blood cells , resulting in the inducement of capillary growth .
The primary results indicated ( i ) positive results of in situ hybridization are presence of granules or masses in the cytoplasm ; ( ii ) the less expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA , the higher metastatic rate of the human hepatocellular carcinoma ( P < 0 . 05 ) ; ( iii ) expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA dose not correlate with some other factors such as tumor size and the background of other liver diseases .
Both groups believe that pulp revascularization and regeneration will be viable treatment modalities in the future .
However , by treatment with Ha - ras oncogenes derived from a human lung carcinoma or Harvey murine sarcoma virus , the KMST - 6 cells acquired elevated clonability in soft agar and transplantability in nude mice .
IL - 8 or CXCL8 has been associated with tumor angiogenesis , metastasis , and poor prognosis in breast cancer .
Expression of AQP5 was associated with cellular differentiation , lymph node invasion , and clinicopathological staging .
BMECs co - expressing SV40T , hTERT and N - ras exhibited an overtly transformed phenotype ; forming very large colonies with an altered morphology and generating rapidly growing tumours in vivo .
We assessed survivin expression in breast carcinomas correlating results with expression of other antiapoptotic ( bcl - 2 , bcl - x ) and proapoptotic ( bax ) markers , with prognostic parameters , and with prognosis .
Finally , in vivo , in a xenograft model of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma using UM - SCC - 11A cells , 2ME2 exhibited antitumor and antiangiogenic activity , as measured by CD31 immunostaining .
However , little is known about the function of AQPs in human breast cancer .
Here , we showed that proapoptotic activity of HDACi was robustly enhanced by E1A in multiple cancer cells , but not in normal cells .
p63 also correlated with advanced pathological stage , tumor size , and the expression of human telomerase reverse transcriptase ( hTERT ) , tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase 1 ( TIMP1 ) and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
Adjuvant chemotherapy is recommended after resection in selected high - risk patients with stage II disease and in all patients with stage III disease .
Analysis of the intratumoral vascular architecture revealed no major differences in microvessel density and perfusion characteristics .
An assay to measure angiogenesis in human fat tissue .
In addition , filopodia formation , a feature of motile cells , was inhibited in PECAM - 1 - null endothelial cells as well as in human endothelial cells treated with either anti - PECAM - 1 antibody or PECAM - 1 siRNA .
Additionally , bolus ( 3h ) doxorubicin incubation led to phosphorylation of p53 at serine 392 , induction of p21 , G2 arrest and increase of proapoptotic protein Bax .
Transfection of SiHa cervical cancer cells with a plasmid expressing the TSP - 1 protein exhibited antiangiogenic activity in vitro and resulted in reduced tumor growth in severe combined immunodeficiency ( SCID ) mice , which was accompanied by a decrease in tumor vascularization and lower expressions of alpha - SMA and desmin than those in the vector controls .
Surprisingly , despite the expression of KSHV latent genes in the vast majority of tumor cells , specifically targeting only the few vGPCR - expressing cells in established tumors resulted in tumor regression .
Chronic exposure to tobacco smoke , which contains over 60 tumor - initiating carcinogens , is the major risk factor for development of lung cancer , accounting for a large portion of cancer - related deaths worldwide .
OBJECT : Endothelial proliferation has been recognized as a marker of high - grade or aggressive glioma .
Thus , the NO metabolic pathway in endothelial cells could be one of the main contributing factors for angiogenesis .
Treatment of ovarian cancer cell lines with recombinant LL - 37 stimulated proliferation , chemotaxis , invasion and matrix metalloproteinase expression .
Immunohistochemical study with specific antisera was done .
CONCLUSIONS : PLD may be of potential benefit in the prediction of neck metastasis in PTMC .
Curcumin induces apoptosis in immortalized NIH 3T3 and malignant cancer cell lines .
The presence of bFGF in the extracellular compartment of a diverse variety of organs may play a role in angiogenesis .
CONCLUSION : Myofibroblasts represent an important prognostic factor for invasive growth that is translated into a poor clinical prognosis for patients with invasive breast cancer .
Another marker being investigated in the context of vascular dysfunction and coagulopathy is the endothelial microparticle ( EMP ) .
PTHrP also influenced expression of the adhesion factor CXCR4 , and coexpression of PTHrP and CXCR4 was crucial for metastatic spread .
Ischemic cardiac muscle is additionally vulnerable because reperfusion is essential for survival but reperfusion itself poses additional stress principally from increased production of free radicals during reoxygenation .
Vasodilator - stimulated phosphoprotein ( VASP ) is highly expressed in vascular endothelial cells , where it has been implicated in cellular reorganization during angiogenesis , as well as in endothelial retraction and changes in vessel permeability .
Overexpression of CYR61 , CTGF , WISP - 1 , and NOV occurred in 48 % ( 32 of 66 ) , 58 % ( 38 of 66 ) , 36 % ( 24 of 66 ) , and 15 % ( 10 of 66 ) of primary gliomas , respectively .
Reduced oncogenicity of p190 Bcr / Abl F - actin - binding domain mutants .
Given the likely role of the evolutionarily conserved hADA3 in multiple coactivator complexes , inactivation of its function may allow E6 to perturb numerous cellular pathways during HPV oncogenesis .
METHOD : Dideoxy sequencing and fluorescent single strand conformation analysis were used to screen for mutations in exon 15 of BRAF in 183 cases of metastatic melanoma .
After 1 week of treatment , before an increase in capillary length density , VEGF mRNA increased greater than 2 - fold and then declined to control levels after 3 weeks of treatment .
No AP - 1 expression was found 19 weeks after initiation .
Endothelialization was present at anastomotic sites , but other areas were covered with fresh thrombi .
Inhibition of Dll4 - mediated signaling induces proliferation of immature vessels and results in poor tissue perfusion .
Differential diagnosis for synchronous primary ovarian and endometrial cancers and metastatic cancer .
TS and DPD proteins were overexpressed in primary OSCC compared to that in normal mucosa .
Finally , we identified FGF13 as a new prognostic marker that predicted poorer outcome in patients who were clinically considered free from disease .
This finding may help to elucidate the relationship of WT1 and N - myc in tumorigenesis and renal development .
Leukocyte - vessel wall interactions were studied both within and outside small tumors growing in the ear , and in ear microvessels of mice with a large tumor growing on their flank .
The NBD peptide suppressed metastasis and tongue tumor growth in GSAS / N5 - inoculated mice , and was accompanied by the downregulation of the NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules in engrafted tongue tumors .
Attenuation of NF - kappaB activation by TSC phenolic fraction was associated with significant decrease of intracellular PKC substrate phosphorylation in BPDE treated cells .
The p75 receptor of neurotrophins ( p75 ( NTR ) ) , which is scarcely present in healthy endothelial cells ( ECs ) , becomes strongly expressed by capillary ECs after induction of peripheral ischemia in type - 1 diabetic mice .
The data support the concept that a positive relationship exists between the density of blood vessels and the formation of bone .
METHODS : This review discusses our current understanding of the mechanisms of TGF - beta signaling , focusing on the roles of TGF - beta in regulation of vascular wall cells and on the regulation of TGF - beta superfamily signals by inhibitory Smads .
Histological examination revealed cystic or angiomatoid spaces of various sizes lined by cuboidal , low - columnar , or flattened epithelioid cells with vacuolated cytoplasm and round to oval nuclei .
Also , a significant correlation existed between CTGF mRNA levels versus tumor grade , gender , and pathology .
In vitro studies also suggest progesterone may play a role in modulating inflammation .
With HL60 cells loss of the 55 kDa Glut - 1 band was observed and a band of 45 kDa appeared .
In contrast , bFGF mRNA was not altered by alinidine treatment .
We have previously reported that dihydroartemisinin is found to have a potent ability in influencing lymphatic endothelial cell migration and tube formation .
Nevertheless , the repression of VEGF - C was lost in mutant VHL cell lines under hypoxia .
These observations have led to the idea that factors in the host downmodulate the E - cadherin complex and promote invasion most probably in a transient way .
A novel role of thrombospondin - 1 in cervical carcinogenesis : inhibit stroma reaction by inhibiting activated fibroblasts from invading cancer .
In addition , we report here the identification of two RNA transcripts of type II - like tumor HK of approximately 5 . 5 and approximately 4 . 0 kb in these cancer cells lines , including muscle - derived L6 myoblast cells .
However , the cellular functions of VASP are not known .
In addition , ethanol exposure decreased expression of endothelial VEGF receptor - 2 , as well as VEGF receptor - 2 phosphorylation in vitro .
Effect of ROS on angiogenesis in tumors expressing hot - spot p53 mutants was correlated with their ability to increase a content of HIF1 transcriptional factor responsible for up - regulation of VEGF - A mRNAs .
CSC - high cultures and tumors expressed increased levels of the proangiogenic factors vascular endothelial growth factor and stromal - derived factor 1 , and when signaling by either factor was blocked , all aspects of angiogenesis observed in CSC - high cultures and tumors , including microvessel density , perfusion , EPC mobilization / recruitment , and stimulation of endothelial cell activity , were reduced to levels comparable with those observed in CSC - low cultures / tumors .
The effects of 5T4 expression on morphology and motility are separable since cells transfected with a truncated form of 5T4 cDNA in which the cytoplasmic domain is deleted reveal that the latter is necessary to abrogate actin / cadherin - containing contacts but does not influence the effects on motility .
Specific miRNAs ( angiomiRs ) have recently been shown to regulate angiogenesis in vivo .
Swainsonine caused a great distortion to the vasculature at 18 weeks .
Endothelial cell migration was attenuated by treatment of cells with GM6001 , a non - specific inhibitor of MMPs , or by a selective anti - MMP2 antibody .
An N - terminal segment containing the first 127 T - antigen amino acids ( T1 - 127 ) was sufficient to sensitize cells .
Suppression of tumor growth by the 3 ' untranslated region of mel - 18 in 3Y1 cells transformed by the E6 and E7 genes of human papillomavirus type 18 .
The effects of PDFs with different amounts of GDPs were compared on morphological changes in the peritoneal membrane in a RAGE - / - mouse model .
Activation of MybER both prevented the growth arrest induced by interleukin - 6 ( IL - 6 ) and rapidly restored c - myc expression in nearly terminal differentiated cells that had been exposed to IL - 6 for 3 days .
To elucidate the role of N - glycosylation in the functional activity of the universal glucose transporter , Glut - 1 , we investigated effects of the N - glycosylation inhibitor , tunicamycin , on glucose transport by human leukemic cell lines K562 , U937 and HL60 .
Furthermore , we found that p130 ( Cas ) , but not paxillin , recruited Crk to the nascent focal complex .
METHODS : Preoperative plasma fibrinogen levels were retrospectively examined in 405 patients who underwent surgery for advanced gastric cancer .
20 - HETE also increased the phosphorylation of p42 / p44 mitogen - activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) in EC , whereas an inhibitor of MAPK [ U0126 , 1 , 4 - diamino - 2 , 3 - dicyano - 1 , 4 - bis ( 2 - aminophenylthio ) butadiene ] suppressed the proliferative and the VEGF changes but not the pro - oxidant effects of 20 - HETE .
Consequently , hPNAS - 4 has potential as a new gene therapy for human ovarian cancer .
We further support this hypothesis by providing the first evidence that TnI can act on nonendothelial as well as endothelial cells and by demonstrating that this inhibitory action is specific for the bFGF receptor on the target cells .
We now show that c - MYC overexpression is sufficient to rescue proliferation and to release the differentiation block imposed by Runx2 .
The authors show that resection of the primary osteosarcoma tumor enhances progression of pulmonary metastasis in animal osteosarcoma models .
Two of them were selected for high or low osteonectin expression and tested in vivo in spontaneous and artificial metastasis assays .
Hepatomas exhibiting this phenotype are dependent on the high expression of type II hexokinase , which supplies such tumors with abundant amounts of glucose 6 - phosphate , a significant carbon and energy source especially under hypoxic conditions .
Indeed , in the reported cases it was possible to vacuum dry and reconstitute the proteins without any aggregation or loss in protein and biological activity .
Together , our data define caspase - 3 as an important integrator of the apoptotic process in MCF - 7 breast cancer cells and reveal an essential function of caspase - 3 for procaspase - 9 processing .
The concentrations of urine IL - 8 / Cr were significantly higher in patients than in controls ( 48 . 9 + / - 194 . 4 vs . 5 . 2 + / - 13 . 8 pg / mg Cr , P less than 0 . 001 ) .
Serum and urine levels of interleukin - 8 in patients with non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma .
In 32 evaluated breast cancer patients with endocrine - dependent distant metastases treated with a new immunotherapy schedule ( cyclic administration of beta - interferon and interleukin - 2 ) , cellular immunity , cytokines and CRP were related to the clinical course .
In contrast , tunicamycin had little effect on the viability and MTT responses of the cells used .
KISS1 transcript expression was also associated with histopathological tumor stage ( P < 0 . 0005 ) .
Endocytosis of the conjugate and decomposition of the acid - labile linkage inside lysosomes and other acidic intracellular compartments should then lead to release of the cortisol and expression of its antiproliferative activity .
METHODS : Expression of MMP - 9 was studied in human NPC cell lines cultured in vitro : CNE1 ( well differentiated cell line of NPC ) and CNE1 - GL ( CNE1 cell line transfected with an eukaryotic LMP1 - expression plasmid ) by SP immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis .
DAPT delivery from the hydrogels also did not lead to any adverse side effects , in contrast to systemic introduction of DAPT .
Mechanical regulation of the proangiogenic factor CCN1 / CYR61 gene requires the combined activities of MRTF - A and CREB - binding protein histone acetyltransferase .
Now , by competition experiments with a panel of different unlabelled cells we show that the VCSA expressed on RSV - transformed hamster fibroblasts is a complex of at least three distinct antigenic specificities : ( 1 ) one expressed on all RSV - transformed fibroblasts , regardless their species and the subgroup or strain of the transforming virus ; ( 2 ) one cross - reacting with a cell - surface antigen ( CSA ) expressed at various degrees on untransformed avian fibroblasts , but not on mammalian fibroblasts ; ( 3 ) one species - specific , present only on RSV - transformed hamster fibroblasts .
The glucose turnover rate was significantly greater in TB compared with NTB animals , as was the rate of glucose recycling and the rate of gluconeogenesis ( alanine leads to glucose ) , both energy demanding processes .
BACKGROUND & # 38 ; OBJECTIVE : Previous study shows that both vascular endothelial growth - C ( VEGF - C ) and tumor - associated macrophages ( TAMs ) are related to lymphatic metastasis .
Ischemia , involving restricted blood flow to tissues is the most common consequence of vessel dysfunction resulting in the disruption of oxygen and nutrient delivery and the accumulation of waste metabolites .
But because these experiments were performed on confluent cultures of established cell lines , the differences are difficult to attribute to ras transformation .
RESULTS : Histology demonstrated C - cell hyperplasia in five patients ( aged 4 - 13 years ) , unilateral medullary microcarcinoma in six ( aged 9 - 17 years ) and a bilateral medullary microcarcinoma in three cases ( aged 17 - 24 years ) .
Radiation significantly affected DMBA - associated vascular volume and permeability changes during carcinogenesis .
Since other DNA tumor viruses , such as simian virus 40 and adenovirus , have previously been shown to interact with cellular protein p53 , we investigated whether infection of cells by HCMV would modulate cellular p53 levels .
We further show that Stat3 is phosphorylated at S727 in 65 % of malignant prostate tissues ( n = 20 ) relative to 25 % of normal prostate tissues ( n = 4 ) .
We show that enhanced glycolysis is dependent on HIF - 1alpha up - regulation , while reduced mitochondrial activity is HIF - 1alpha - independent and likely caused by STAT3 - mediated down - regulation of mitochondrial proteins .
Transformation - associated cytokine 9E3 / CEF4 is chemotactic for chicken peripheral blood mononuclear cells .
In the present study , the authors used molecular techniques to analyze the clonal composition of five cases of concurrent adenocarcinomas of the endometrium and ovary that were clinicopathologically diagnosed as synchronous primary tumors .
Neurotrophin p75 receptor ( p75NTR ) promotes endothelial cell apoptosis and inhibits angiogenesis : implications for diabetes - induced impaired neovascularization in ischemic limb muscles .
Incubation with 1 micromol / L sanguinarine for 4 and 24h killed more efficiently MG - 63 cells than SaOS - 2 cells , while incubation with 5 micromol / L sanguinarine killed almost 100 % of both cell populations within 24h .
One such factor , vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , is considered to exert a potent angiogenic activity , as indicated by immunohistochemical and molecular evidence .
Conditioned medium from progestin - treated breast cancer cells stimulates endothelial cell proliferation in the absence though not in the presence of antibody to TSP - 1 , indicating that TSP - 1 secreted by breast cancer cells could be pro - angiogenic .
Both cell lines showed reduced expression of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteases ( TIMP ) - 1 , while TIMP - 2 and plasminogen activator inhibitor ( PAI ) - I expression was was also reduced in RSVT2 / C cells , thus contributing to their hyperinvasiveness .
Here we produced a neutralizing antibody , 1B3 , directed against mouse PDGFRbeta .
Transformation of primary cells in cultures requires both overcoming growth arrest by stimulating the cell cycle and blocking cell death activities presumably activated by oncogene - mediated hyperproliferation signals .
TP catalyzes the conversion of thymidine to thymine and doxyribose - 1 - phosphate ( dR - 1 - P ) .
The candidate tumour suppressor protein ING4 regulates brain tumour growth and angiogenesis .
The COX - 2 protein was not detected in the three borderline tumours , whereas PPARgamma protein was detected in all of them .
Molecular factors which implement this triad of events are reviewed , as are several signal transduction components which may regulate them .
Moreover , this study is the first in vivo report of the radiation - induced p53 apoptotic response in patients and suggests that this apoptotic response is not immunologically silent .
[ Prognostic significance of cellular vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) expression in the course of chronic myeloid leukaemia ]
This was attributed to high entrapment of lipoplexes in the extended lung vascular tree .
Both COL - I and COL - V showed statistically significant ( P less than 0 . 05 ) increased activity between day 7 and day 14 for pattern A , potentially indicating a continued effect on matrix remodeling .
Relationship and prognostic significance of SPARC and VEGF protein expression in colon cancer .
Exposure of wild - type primary mouse cerebral endothelial cells to the CD47 ligand thrombospondin 1 ( TSP - 1 ) induced an increasing amount of cell death , whereas cytotoxicity was significantly decreased in cerebral endothelial cells derived from CD47 knockout mice .
CONCLUSIONS : PDT can reduce the clinical signs of activity , such as choroidal hyperpermeability or neurosensorial retinal detachment , in patients affected by chronic CSC .
We previously reported the cloning and characterization of a HBV insert from a Chinese HCC .
Increasing evidence suggests that elevated expression of ErbB - 3 is important for malignancy .
We investigated the presence of COUP - TFII in human colorectal cancer tissues and adjacent normal tissues from 95 primary colorectal cancer patients by immunohistochemistry .
In contrast , doxorubicin treatment of mutant ( mut ) p53 cells ( EU - 6 / ALL line ) up - regulated survivin and induced G ( 2 ) / M arrest without inducing apoptosis .
We now report that a nearby residue , Thr - 495 , also appears to be phosphorylated .
The rationale for therapeutic angiogenesis is discussed , together with the most recent results from randomised trials in patients with peripheral arterial disease .
In order to elucidate a mechanism for cancer - induced osteoclastogenesis , cells from a human breast cancer line , MDA - MB - 231 , were directly co - cultured with ST2 , MC3T3 - E1 , or with primary mouse calvarial cells .
Oncogenic mechanisms of Evi - 1 protein .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : Urine from 81 patients with RDEB ( 39 patients ) , junctional epidermolysis bullosa ( JEB ; 12 patients ) , and epidermolysis bullosa simplex ( EBS ; 30 patients ) , as well as unaffected family members of RDEB patients ( 33 patients ) , was tested for the presence of basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF ) using a sensitive radioimmunoassay .
This in vitro morphological appearance was exactly reproduced in the in vivo tumors , which were formed when the mixture of A431 and F - 2 cells at the ratio of 10 : 1 were cotransplanted s . c . into the back of nude rats .
FM - MSC or BM - MSC obtained from Lewis rats were injected into a MHC - mismatched August - Copenhagen - Irish rat model of hind limb ischemia .
Breast tissue taken at varying postoperative times ( n = 92 ) or during surgery ( controls , n = 17 ) , was used to investigate the temporal and spatial activity of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 during human wound healing .
Cervical cancer develops from well - defined precursor lesions referred to as either cervical intraepithelial neoplasia or squamous intraepithelial lesions .
No ocular or systemic bevacizumab - related side effects were observed .
TP is not only expressed in tumor cells but also in tumor surrounding tissues , such as tumor infiltrating macrophages .
In order to study their relation to the metastatic profile and survival , we evaluated the association between pretreatment serum levels of S - 100beta , IL - 6 , IL - 10 and IL - 12 and metastatic site and survival in 50 patients with advanced melanoma who were to receive chemoimmunotherapy .
The B ( 1 ) R distribution pattern mirrored that of HER2 except that B ( 1 ) R was additionally observed in the adenomas .
Systemic treatment with L - NAME inhibited growth of adenocarcinoma significantly but was accompanied by impaired renal function .
Our results showed that MTX administration increased the MDA and MPO activities and collagen content and decreased GSH levels in all tissues , while these alterations were reversed in L - Car - treated group .
However , in N - ras - transformed cell clones , RA - induced expression of these homeobox genes is delayed .
RESULTS : Approximate 1 , 000 protein spots were detected on silver - stained gel by ImageMaster ( 977 + / - 113 spots in Hep3B , 1092 + / - 40 in MHCC97L , and 889 + / - 14 in MHCC97H ) .
The acquisition of the metastatic phenotype induced by UV - B could not be attributed to abnormalities in the p53 or MTS - 1 ( p16INK4 ) genes .
The frequency of ITC in bone marrow was significantly associated with the stage of disease by ANOVA ( P < 0 . 01 ) .
All patients received a total dose of 16 Gy in 2 - Gy daily fractions with 5 - 6 MeV photons based on computerized treatment planning in individual head mask fixation .
Stimulation of angiogenesis by adipose tissue was nearly abolished by bevacizumab , which specifically targets human VEGF .
RNA damage and inhibition of neoplastic endothelial cell growth : effects of human and amphibian ribonucleases .
Prolonged culture led to the implantation of cancer cells into the monolayer of the F - 2 cells , which was mediated mainly by alpha ( 3 ) beta ( 1 ) - integrin .
alpha - MSH also induces activation of NF - kappa B but does not modulate DNA binding on costimulation with IL - 1 beta .
After 2 h incubation at 37 degrees C the drop in the ATP level was lower .
We also showed ICAM - 3 - induced cell migration and invasion in NCI - H460 NSCLC cells ( wild - type p53 and PTEN cell ) through the same signaling pathway .
In the present study , the vascular grade was assessed in 107 ( T1 , 2 - N0 , 1 ) operable non - small cell lung carcinomas , using the JC70 monoclonal antibody to CD31 .
This enhanced glycolysis was partly sensitive to rutamycin and partly sensitive to ouabain , suggesting that the detergent released the control of the ATPase of the mitochondria and of the plasma membrane Na + K + - ATPase .
We now report that six different genes of the cluster HOX 1 are sequentially induced by RA in a similar temporal pattern , beginning with genes at the 3 ' end of the cluster .
A third mutation involved a single base pair ( adenine ) deletion in codon 3 of H - ras which causes a frame shift , resulting in a termination signal at codon 19 .
Effects of spironolactone on corneal allograft survival in the rat .
Recently , there is an increasing number of patents which have been focused on the inhibitors of VEGF action .
Adaptor protein Crk is required for ephrin - B1 - induced membrane ruffling and focal complex assembly of human aortic endothelial cells .
Together these results indicated that the revertant phenotype did not result from altered expression or mutations in the c - jun gene .
The positive rates of PTEN mRNA expression were 80 . 4 % ( 45 / 56 ) , 45 . 5 % ( 5 / 11 ) and 32 . 1 % ( 18 / 56 ) in normal mucosa , early and advanced gastric carcinomas , respectively , while 78 . 6 % ( 44 / 56 ) , 44 . 5 % ( 5 / 11 ) and 28 . 6 % ( 16 / 56 ) at the protein level .
Vaccination is associated with enhancement of splenocyte - mediated tumoricidal activity , whereas the effect of gammaIFN is mediated by KC .
In addition , the double staining was also used to determine VEGF - C expression in TAMs .
Current prospects for controlling cancer growth with non - cytotoxic agents - - nutrients , phytochemicals , herbal extracts , and available drugs .
We also demonstrated that Evi - 1 represses Smad - induced transcriptional activation by recruiting CtBP as a corepressor .
AMI control group received equal volume physiological saline .
This resulted in a substantial increase in P185neu expression , which led to the formation of progressively growing carcinomas after such cells were inoculated into athymic nude mice .
Recombinant EBV containing LMP1 with TES2 deleted induces a limited proliferation of B cells .
In vivo studies , CT26 cancer cells were implanted into BALB / c mice and groups of mice were treated with vehicle , DATS ( 10 and 50 mg / kg of body weight ) .
Bovine capillary endothelial cells are also stimulated to actively migrate when exposed to EGF in vitro .
Acetylation of histone and non - histone proteins , induction of apoptotic - related proteins and de - phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase were confirmed in treated mice .
The mean BCVA increased from 20 / 76 to 20 / 64 .
An understanding of the complex interactions involved in these pathways might allow the development of novel therapeutic strategies for rheumatoid arthritis .
Neovascularization is an early and critical step in tumor development and progression .
Two of these cell cycle inhibitors , p16 ( INK4A ) and p15 ( INK4B ) , have tumor suppressor activities and are inactivated in human cancer .
The additional function of Pten as a dual - specificity protein phosphatase may also play a role in glioma pathogenesis .
Role of osteopontin in adhesion , migration , cell survival and bone remodeling .
Our recent studies show that progestins induce vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) in breast cancer cells that express mutant p53 protein .
Patients with high PLD ( > 8 . 0 ) showed higher rates of neck metastases than low PLD ( < = 8 . 0 ) ( 74 . 0 % vs 46 . 8 % , p = . 03 ) .
N - glycosylation of glucose transporter - 1 ( Glut - 1 ) is associated with increased transporter affinity for glucose in human leukemic cells .
The present study demonstrates that Tie1 expression is rapidly down - regulated in endothelial cells exposed to shear stress , and more so to shear stress changes .
These findings suggest that c - Ski overexpression promotes the growth of diffuse - type gastric carcinoma through induction of angiogenesis .
Netrin - 1 up - regulation in inflammatory bowel diseases is required for colorectal cancer progression .
There have been no reports showing the relativity of invasive breast cancer and the desmoplastic reaction by a quantitative analysis of the myofibroblasts that were an important player in the desmoplastic reaction .
Scanning electron microscopy of vascular casts was used to investigate three experimental models of neovascularization .
Thus , UV - induced Erbb2 activation increases skin tumorigenesis through inhibitory phosphorylation of Chk1 , Cdc25a maintenance , and suppression of S - phase arrest via a PI3K / Akt - dependent mechanism .
Cancer cells display high rates of aerobic glycolysis , a phenomenon known historically as the Warburg effect .
The co - injection of anti - Le ( x ) / Le ( a ) or anti - beta ( 1 ) - integrin antibodies produced a marked reduction in the size of A431 tumors , which were not vascularized and accompanied an independent tiny remnant clump of F - 2 cells .
Expressions of KISS1 mRNA and protein were significantly higher in low TNM stages of NSCLC ( I - II ) compared to more advanced stages ( III - IV ) ( p < 0 . 05 ) .
Here , we established lymph node metastasis models by injecting overexpressing VEGF - D Lewis lung carcinoma cells into C57BL / 6 mice to explore the effect of honokiol on tumor - associated lymphangiogenesis and related lymph node metastasis .
BAG - 1L was nucleoplasmic and nucleolar , whereas BAG - 1S and BAG - 1M were cytoplasmic and nucleoplasmic in localisation .
Furthermore , elevated expression of VEGFR - 1 facilitates the establishment of hematogenous metastases in gastric cancer .
The characteristics of HPCs in PET described herein for the first time offer additional diagnostic criteria and may help especially to differentiate these tumors from meningiomas .
In addition to p16 ( INK4A ) , the INK4A locus encodes a splice variant , termed p12 - - specifically expressed in human pancreas - - and ARF , a protein encoded by an alternative reading frame that acts as a tumor suppressor through the p53 pathway .
Furthermore , the Runx2 / MYC combination overcomes the requirement for genetic inactivation of the p53 pathway in vivo .
By specifically and potently inhibiting tumor Hsp90 , PU24FCl exhibits wide - ranging anti - cancer activities that occur at similar doses in all tested tumor types .
Histopathological development of gastric tumors induced by N - methyl - N ' - nitro - N - nitrosoguanidine in rats .
Long - term peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) is associated with alterations in peritoneal permeability and loss of ultrafiltration .
This review summarizes the current state of the art concerning the involvement of aberrant Pten function in the development of different biologic features of malignant gliomas , such as loss of cell - cycle control and uncontrolled cell proliferation , escape from apoptosis , brain invasion , and aberrant neoangiogenesis .
The UFO proto - oncogene maps to human chromosome 19q13 . 1 and is transcribed into two 5 . 0 kb and 3 . 2 kb mRNAs in human bone marrow and human tumor cell lines .
CONCLUSIONS : Rab5a and Rab7a regulate VEGFR2 trafficking toward early and late endosomes .
The effect of swainsonine ( active compound of locoweed and a potential anticancer drug ) on vascular development showed no differences in sinusoidal diameters at 7 weeks , but a decrease in capillary density was noted .
Since AP - 1 and NF - kappa B are key elements in controlling interleukin - 8 ( IL - 8 ) transcription , human fibroblasts were treated with alpha - MSH and IL - 1 beta for 24 hours , and cytokine levels in the supernatants were measured by ELISA .
In contrast , the response of cells to long - term treatment with PDBu was significantly different depending upon the initial growth state of the cells .
In addition , the positivity rate of EphA2 was significantly higher in primary lesions with lymph node metastasis than in those without metastasis ( p = 0 . 0014 ) .
Dysregulation of the signaling mechanisms of the TGF - beta superfamily proteins is associated with clinical diseases such as cancer , fibrotic diseases , and vascular disorders .
The migration activity of mast cell conditioned medium was resistant to heat ( 100 degrees C ) and incubation with proteolytic enzymes .
The malate - citrate cycle was studied during aerobic glycolysis and glutaminolysis in a strain of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells which showed a very low malate - aspartate shuttle system activity .
BACKGROUND : The anabolic properties of insulin have been suggested for use to reverse malnutrition associated with cancer .
Expression , regulation , and function of IGF - 1 , IGF - 1R , and IGF - 1 binding proteins in blood vessels .
Rab GTPase regulation of VEGFR2 trafficking and signaling in endothelial cells .
Highly sensitive reverse - transcription polymerase chain reaction identifies an induction and overexpression of a type II - like tumor HK RNA in a range of cancer cell lines irrespective of tissue origin .
Therapeutic Electromagnetic Field ( TEMF ) and gamma irradiation on human breast cancer xenograft growth , angiogenesis and metastasis .
Thrombin increases the mRNA and protein levels of alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) integrin and serves as a ligand to this receptor .
PURPOSE : We studied retrospectively the interaction between c - erbB2 overexpression and adjuvant tomoxifen in node - negative breast cancer patients enrolled in the Gruppo Universitario Napoletano 1 ( GUN - 1 ) trial .
This study aims to verify the relationship between p63 expression and several clinicopathological features and tumor markers of clinical significance in breast pathology including key regulators of the cell cycle , oncogenes , apoptosis - related proteins , metalloproteinases and their inhibitors .
To understand the biologic mechanisms of this extremely effective response , we compared by microarray the gene - expression profile of patients ' biopsies taken before and after radiation .
Microvessel density ( MVD ) was assessed in order to evaluate angiogenesis of autogenous bone grafts .
However , the maximum decrease approached 100 % in stationary cultures versus approximately 75 % in growing cells .
Expression of bFGF on normal human tissues was ubiquitously detected in the basement membranes of all size blood vessels , but was not found in epidermal or epithelial basement membranes of a variety of tissues tested .
Forty male golden hamsters were divided into four equal groups .
Patients had primarily relapsed diffuse large B - cell lymphoma ( 63 % ) were heavily pretreated ( median of three regimens ) and high risk ( 79 % international prognostic index , greater than or = 2 ) and 34 % were relapsed after autologous stem cell transplant .
Chronic inflammation is a common underlying condition for human tumor development , accounting for approximately 20 % of human cancers .
Among the members of this superfamily there are proteins with a regulatory function , such as ras , and proteins involved in vesicular trafficking , such as the family of rab proteins .
High - mobility group A2 protein modulates hTERT transcription to promote tumorigenesis .
METHODS : XTT cell proliferation assay was used for showing cytotoxicity .
Adenovirus 5 early region 1A ( E1A ) has been shown to exhibit high tumor suppressor activity , and gene therapy using E1A has been tested in clinical trials .
We previously reported that a single dose of ethanol ( 1 . 4 g / kg ) , yielding a blood alcohol concentration of 100 mg / dl , significantly impairs angiogenesis in murine wounds , despite adequate levels of VEGF , suggesting direct effects of ethanol on endothelial cell signaling ( 40 ) .
Mitogen - activated protein kinase kinase signaling promotes growth and vascularization of fibrosarcoma .
Y705F / S727E mutant cells were more invasive than Y705F / S727A ( inactivation of Y705 and S727 ) mutant cells , and more Y705F / S727E mutant Stat3 was localized in the nuclei relative to Y705F / S727A mutant Stat3 at the steady state .
Overall , paclitaxel exerts its anti - tumour effects on cervical cancer cells by inducing apoptosis through intrinsic pathway , and rapamycin targeted to mTOR can sensitise paclitaxel - resistant cervical cancer cells .
We demonstrate that a decrease in the amount of circulating ANG II by the angiotensin - converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitor enalapril or the AT1 receptor antagonist losartan induced a stimulation of in vivo angiogenesis implying an inhibitory function of ANG II through the AT1 receptor .
Endothelialisation and platelet adhesion to purified endothelial cell - derived perlecan , the major heparan sulfate ( HS ) proteoglycan in basement membranes , were investigated using in vivo and in vitro assays .
We show that HIF - 1alpha and VEGF are increased through A3 adenosine receptor stimulation , whereas the effects on IL - 8 are mediated via the A2B subtype .
Cloning and characterization of the latent membrane protein ( LMP ) of a specific Epstein - Barr virus variant derived from the nasopharyngeal carcinoma in the Taiwanese population .
In contrast VEGF - B was not regulated by VHL despite clear up - regulation in vivo .
In the mammary carcinoma experiment , vascular permeability measured by means of B22956 / 1 in the animals treated with the antiangiogenic drug ( 0 . 0043317 + / - 0 . 0040418 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) ) was significantly less than in untreated animals ( 0 . 0090460 + / - 0 . 0043680 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) ) , whereas no significant difference was observed with Gd - DTPA - albumin ( 13 . 14 + / - 13 . 94 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) in treated animals and 18 . 07 + / - 11 . 92 ml / min ( - 1 ) / ml ( - 1 ) in untreated animals ) .
These findings suggest that c - Myc and / or HIF - 1alpha activities are both involved in the regulation of glycolysis in breast cancers .
Statistical analysis revealed a significantly inverse correlation between AI and IMVD ( r = - 0 . 53 , P less than 0 . 01 ) .
Antibodies against beta ( 2 ) M or MHC class I induce tumor cell apoptosis by 1 ) recruiting MHC class I molecules to lipid rafts and activating LYN kinase and the signal - transducing enzyme phospholipase C - gamma2 - dependent c - Jun N - terminal kinase signaling pathway and 2 ) expelling interleukin 6 and insulin - like growth factor 1 receptors out of lipid rafts and inhibiting the growth and survival factor - induced activation of the phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase / Akt and extracellular signal - related kinase pathways .
In conclusion , the level of nm23 - H1 gene product expression does not significantly reveal prognostic value in node - positive lung cancers .
Differential sensitivity to these agents implies that more than one endothelial cell type must be used in proliferation assays to screen for novel anti - angiogenic compounds .
Glycolysis of 3T3 and Ehrlich ascites tumor cells was greatly enhanced by Nonidet P - 40 or Triton X - 100 at about 100 micrograms / mg cell protein .
Vitamin E inhibits experimental carcinogenesis and tumour angiogenesis .
Granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor and interleukin - 3 enhance the incorporation of cytosine arabinoside into the DNA of leukemic blasts and the cytotoxic effect on clonogenic cells from patients with acute myeloid leukemia .
The present study revealed that androgen increases glucose utilization for de novo lipogenesis in LNCaP cells through the activation of HK2 ( hexokinase 2 ) and activation of the cardiac isoform of PFKFB2 ( 6 - phosphofructo - 2 - kinase / fructose - 2 , 6 - bisphosphatase ) .
Additionally , doxycycline diminishes the proliferation of this breast cancer cell line and also decreases its gelatinolytic activity , as determined by gel zymography .
Normal functionality of exogenous Tsg101 was tested by rescuing the survival of Tsg101 - deficient mammary epithelial cells in conditional knockout mice .
Our data indicates that this therapeutic approach markedly promotes angiogenesis and granulation tissue formation in comparison with other conditions 14 days after wounding .
Mice that received either IR or TEMF had significantly fewer lung metastatic sites and slower tumor growth than did untreated mice .
We tested the epigenetic silencing hypothesis and evaluated the biological influence of KISS1 methylation on its expression and clinical relevance in bladder cancer .
Based on the observation that netrin - 1 , the anti - apoptotic ligand for the dependence receptors DCC and UNC5H is up - regulated in colonic crypts in response to NF - kappaB , we show here that colorectal cancers from inflammatory bowel diseases patients have selected up - regulation of netrin - 1 .
Potential roles for focal adhesion kinase in development .
The molecular mechanisms regulating the gene expression under hypoxic conditions could increase the therapeutic window of tumor - specific delivery systems .
The result of double staining indicated that macrophage with positive VEGF - C expression accounted for about 22 . 8 % of the total .
The purpose of this study was to determine the level of agreement between pediatric dentists and endodontists at a pulp therapy symposium conjointly sponsored by the American Association of Endodontists ( AAE ) and the American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry ( AAPD ) on November 2 - 3 , 2007 .
p18Ink4c , but not p27Kip1 , collaborates with Men1 to suppress neuroendocrine organ tumors .
To clarify the role of Ang - 2 for angiogenesis and tumor growth in a definite genetic experimental setting , the present study was aimed at comparatively studying the growth of different tumors in wild - type and Ang - 2 - deficient mice .
CONCLUSION : Abnormal E - cadherin expression is a possible marker of submucosal invasion in differentiated - type early gastric cancer and absent beta - catenin staining could be used as a predictor of lymph node metastasis in both types .
The lack of treatment for worried - well patients with high - grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia combined with issues of recurrence and hormone resistance in prostate cancer survivors remains a major public health obstacle .
The clinical relevance of Brk1 is emphasized by correlative data showing that Von Hippel - Lindau ( VHL ) patients that also lose the BRK1 gene are protected against the development of tumors .
The interleukin ( IL ) 2 - and beta ( 2 ) - microglobulin ( beta ( 2 ) m ) - deficient ( IL - 2 ( null ) x beta ( 2 ) m ( null ) ) mice spontaneously develop colon cancer in the setting of chronic UC .
Recently , the role of AQPs in human carcinogenesis has become an area of great interest .
AID deaminates cytidines in DNA resulting in U : G mismatches that are processed into point mutations in SHM or double - strand breaks in CSR .
SV40 Tag transformation of the normal invasive trophoblast results in a premalignant phenotype .
In vivo , ethanol exposure caused both decreased angiogenesis and increased hypoxia in wounds .
METHODS AND RESULTS : Quiescent VEGFR2 displays endosomal localization and colocalization with the Rab5a GTPase , an early endosome fusion regulator .
The direct addition of all - trans - RA to conditioned medium had no effect on secreted collagenase activity .
Here , we examined the function of c - Ski in human diffuse - type gastric carcinoma OCUM - 2MLN cells .
These findings suggest a novel mechanism of retrovirus - induced activation of cellular gene expression , potentially contributing to leukemogenesis .
Six subclones were randomly selected from H - 3 cells which had been subcultured to passage 22 .
To better understand the intracellular signaling pathways , we examined the effect of HKa on the phosphorylation of Akt and its downstream effector , GSK - 3alpha HKa and D5 inhibit phosphorylation of Akt and GSK - 3alpha after stimulation withVEGF and S1P .
Histological analysis demonstrated the presence of blood vessels throughout the soft connective tissue in the distraction gap .
Pancreatic endocrine tumors : expression profiling evidences a role for AKT - mTOR pathway .
Interestingly , the level of cyclin D3 protein , known as an activator of G ( 1 ) to S phase transition in the cell cycle , was aberrantly high in cells overexpressing PLD1 and PLD2 compared with control cells .
This study suggests that angiogenin may be important in breast cancer progression and that , through its relationship with ER , it may be a target for tamoxifen .
Photodynamic therapy ( PDT ) is a novel treatment entity that exploits the photophysical properties of various photosensitive chemical entities which , upon light activation , results in targeted photooxidation and subsequent tissue destruction .
Circular dichroism and nuclear magnetic resonance analyses indicate that this peptide forms a stable extended structure in solution , presumably beta - sheet structure and is most likely existing as a dimer .
We demonstrate directly that the wild - type 55 - kDa protein is able to block E1A - induced p53 - dependent apoptosis , whereas cells infected by mutant pm490 / 1 / 5A , which contains alanine residues at all three phosphorylation sites , exhibited extensive DNA fragmentation and classic apoptotic cell death .
Slight variations are caused by drug treatment in tumor - bearing mice as compared with untreated tumor - bearing controls ; the pattern of effects of the selective antimetastatic agents does not differ from that of the reference cytotoxic compound used , cyclophosphamide .
Therefore , our results indicate that emodin inhibits HER - 2 / neu tyrosine kinase activity and preferentially suppresses growth and induces differentiation of HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing cancer cells .
These results indicate that induction of SAPKs by hypoxia regulates HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression in head and neck carcinoma cell lines .
However , the exact mechanism underlying the cytotoxic effects of pacitaxel , especially in the survival - signalling pathway , is poorly understood .
Additionally , this sequence shares some homology with the DNA binding domain of GCN4 and c - jun protein .
Intraperitoneal injections of 2G7 starting 1 d after intraperitoneal inoculation of tumor cells suppressed intraabdominal tumor and lung metastases , whereas the nonneutralizing anti - TGF - beta 12H5 IgG2a had no effect .
This study establishes the potential of metabolic targeting as a broader means to kill and sensitize myeloma and identifies a compound that can achieve this goal .
The leukemia cell lines K562 and HL - 60 had no detectable TGF - beta RII mRNA .
The principal types of tumors were plasmacytomas secreting immunoglobulin and novel lymphomas that expressed markers such as Sca - 1 , CD4 , Thy - 1 , CD34 and CD45 ( B220 ) , consistent with an origin very early in B - lymphoid development .
Drug delivery to solid tumors is one of the most challenging aspects in cancer therapy .
In contrast to the results obtained with c - jun , the levels of junB mRNA and protein were found to be reduced two - or threefold in revertant EMS - 1 - 19 .
The mechanism of TP induction is not yet completely clear , but TNF , IL10 and other cytokines have been clearly shown to induce its expression .
Furthermore , immunoreactivity assay of cytoskeletal F - actin demonstrated a significant inhibitory effect of GA treatment .
Therefore , angiogenesis depends on sustained ERK activity regulated by the ligation state of both a growth factor receptor and integrin alphavbeta3 .
Using vitamin K in perioperation management did not reduce intraoperative blood loss .
Thymosin beta - 4 ( TB4 ) is an actin - sequestering protein to control cytoskeletal reorganization .
Activation of vascular endothelial growth factor through reactive oxygen species mediates 20 - hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid - induced endothelial cell proliferation .
Upon investigation , intrachromosomal gene amplification of Met , a receptor tyrosine kinase implicated in melanoma progression , was identified in Cdkn2a - deficient tumors .
Thus , a distinct WNT / TCF signaling program through LEF1 and HOXB9 enhances the competence of lung adenocarcinoma cells to colonize the bones and the brain .
Smad1 / 5 / 8 phosphorylation was measured by Western blot analysis .
None of the epithelial cell lines induced foci in a focus formation assay .
Both HKa and D5 decrease the speed of BPAE cell migration and alter the morphology in live , time - lapse microscopy after stimulation with S1P or VEGF .
However , there is little information about their possible roles in non - small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) .
John ' s wort ( Hypericum perforatum ) , has emerged as key player not only in the antidepressant activity of the plant but also as an inhibitor of bacteria lymphocyte and tumor cell proliferation , and matrix proteinases .
However , we demonstrate a novel and more complex role for PSMA in angiogenesis , where it is a principal component of a regulatory loop that is tightly modulating laminin - specific integrin signaling and GTPase - dependent , p21 - activated kinase 1 ( PAK - 1 ) activity .
Then , we examined the role of two major downstream molecules of Crk , Rac1 and Rap1 .
Histological examination of tumors from linomide - treated animals revealed marked avascularity .
This chapter provides a new intravital microscopic method for detecting and measuring NO - dependent angiogenesis in a mouse model .
Pbx1 is a downstream target of Evi - 1 in hematopoietic stem / progenitors and leukemic cells .
Curcumin also significantly decreased ( P < 0 . 05 ) the expression of uPA and NF - kappaB DNA binding activity , respectively .
Up - regulation of PFKFB2 expression was mediated by the direct binding of ligand - activated androgen receptor to the PFKFB2 promoter .
TSP interacts with a number of proteases and receptors and in this way inhibits stimulation of angiogenesis .
Both basal ( 2 . 3 + / - 0 . 2 mumol / 100 g / minute , P = 0 . 061 ) and insulin - stimulated ( 8 . 5 + / - 1 . 9 mumol / 100 g / minute , P = 0 . 055 ) skeletal arm muscle glucose uptake rates were higher in control subjects than in patients .
METHODS : Using human colon adenocarcinoma tissues ( hereinafter referred to as colon cancer ) and their corresponding non - diseased colon from 114 patients ' biopsies , the expression of SPARC and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) were investigated by immunohistochemistry staining to assessment the relationship between SPARC and VEGF , as well as their prognostic significance in patients .
Long - term carcinogen exposure exerts continuous pressure on key mechanisms that repair or eliminate carcinogen - damaged cells giving rise to selective failures that contribute to lung cancer .
COX - 2 protein was detected in eight of the 12 carcinomas , whereas PPARgamma protein was detected in only two cases .
The inhibition of tumor growth and changes of survival were recorded and the microvessel density ( MVD ) was determined by histochemical stainingwith CD31 and CD105 antibodies .
Balb / c 3T3 cells carrying this NPC - LMP gene showed a transformed cell morphology and were tumorigenic in nude mice .
Angiogenic stimulation was macroscopically detectable , with engulfment of the samples , in 39 % and was evidenced by angiography in 59 % of the samples .
The largely restricted CCL16 expression in the liver suggests that this chemokine may play a role in hepatic vascular formation during development and in angiogenesis associated to hepatic diseases .
Groups 3 and 4 were vitamin E and untreated controls .
Treatment of NIH3T3 / KDR cells with TKI - 31 blocked VEGF - induced phosphorylation of KDR in a dose - dependent manner .
Strikingly , Tip30 deletion promotes proliferation of primary MECs and results in rapid immortalization of MECs in vitro relative to wild - type cells .
Caspase - 3 is essential for procaspase - 9 processing and cisplatin - induced apoptosis of MCF - 7 breast cancer cells .
The caprine placenta is usually considered to have increased interhemal distance compared with endotheliochorial and hemochorial types : our results suggest that the very extensive development of sinusoids and crypts may compensate for any negative consequences of the placental architecture .
Furthermore , the effects of a selective NF - kappaB inhibitor , NEMO - binding domain ( NBD ) peptide , on metastasis in GSAS / N5 - engrafted mice were assessed , and engrafted tongue tumors were immunohistochemically examined .
Proteome analysis of NIH3T3 cells transformed by activated Galpha12 : regulation of leukemia - associated protein SET .
During these processes , proteolytic activities of tumor and stromal cells modify the extracellular matrix to produce a microenvironment suitable for their growth and migration .
Both STX243 and STX140 were capable of retarding the growth of MDA - MB - 231 xenograft tumours ( 72 and 63 % , respectively ) , whereas no inhibition was observed for animals treated with 2 - MeOE2 .
These results suggest that L - Car , possibly via its free radical scavenging and antioxidant properties , ameliorates MTX - induced oxidative organ injury and inhibits leukocyte apoptosis .
Ectopic overexpression of junB induced transformation of revertant EMS - 1 - 19 , but failed to transform Rat - 1 cells .
c - Ski overexpression promotes tumor growth and angiogenesis through inhibition of transforming growth factor - beta signaling in diffuse - type gastric carcinoma .
Changes in c - FLIP ( L ) and cFLIPs levels were observed in some but not all the cell lines studied following glucose deprivation .
The last 7 years have seen over seven times as many publications indexed by Medline dealing with pomegranate and Punica granatum than in all the years preceding them .
Specimens of NSCLC and adjacent normal lung tissues were collected from 110 patients .
Syndecans are a family of transmembrane heparan sulfate proteoglycans widely expressed in both developing and adult tissues .
BACKGROUND : Breast cancers have higher than normal glucose metabolism , but the mechanism of glucose entry into these tumors is not well understood .
Levels of pro - angiogenic vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and angiogenic inhibitor pigment epithelium - derived factor ( PEDF ) were determined .
The pro - oncogenic transcription factor STAT3 is constitutively activated in a wide variety of tumours that often become addicted to its activity , but no unifying view of a core function determining this widespread STAT3 - dependence has yet emerged .
CK1delta mutants exhibited a reduced kinase activity compared to wtCK1delta in in vitro kinase assays .
Patients were followed up at 1 month and 3 months after treatment and thereafter at 3 - month intervals .
Pathological analyses indicate that a significant large population of human ductal cancers may utilize the EGFR - GEP100 - Arf6 - AMAP1 pathway for their malignancy .
RESULTS : We demonstrated that cisplatin provoked a time - and dose - dependent decrease of HUVEC migration ; this effect was clearly independent from its well known cytotoxic activity .
The pomegranate tree , Punica granatum , especially its fruit , possesses a vast ethnomedical history and represents a phytochemical reservoir of heuristic medicinal value .
Yet , tumor growth in wild - type and Ang - 2 - deficient mice dissociated during early stages of tumor development , whereas tumor growth rates during later stages of primary tumor progression were similar .
While betulin exhibited only moderate anticancer activity in other human cancer cells such as hepatoma SK - HEP - 1 cells , prostate carcinoma PC - 3 , and lung carcinoma NCI - H460 , with IC ( 50 ) values ranging from 20 to 60 microg / mL , it showed minor growth inhibition in human erythroleukemia K562 cells ( IC ( 50 ) > 100 microg / mL ) .
Each was legally blind before treatment ( n = 1 ) , experienced little to no subjective improvement ( n = 2 ) , or was poorly compliant ( n = 2 ) .
To determine whether changes in angiogenesis are responsible for the decrease in progesterone synthesis , we measured hemoglobin and CD34 levels in luteinized ovaries following injection of COX inhibitors and measured the relative frequency of cells positive for platelet - endothelial cell adhesion molecule as a specific marker for endothelial cells .
Adenovirus - mediated p53 gene transfer is ineffective in causing apoptosis in glioma cells that retain wild - type p53 genotype or overexpress the p21 protein .
The body has three equally important interactive immune defense systems , all of which are profoundly disrupted with major burn injury .
Inhibition of tumor vascular development has a direct effect on the growth and progression of the tumor .
Here we demonstrate that bone marrow - derived haematopoietic progenitor cells that express vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 1 ( VEGFR1 ; also known as Flt1 ) home to tumour - specific pre - metastatic sites and form cellular clusters before the arrival of tumour cells .
Multivariate analysis showed that cooccurrence of reduced expression of alpha - catenin and overexpression of p53 was an independent factor indicating lymph node metastases .
Historically , PDT has been limited by a lack of suitable photosensitive dyes .
RT - PCR and western blot techniques were used to validate target gene expression .
This review will focus on the evidence for TGFbeta1 as a tumor promoting and metastasis factor and examine the biological and molecular basis for these effects .
Human cytomegalovirus elevates levels of the cellular protein p53 in infected fibroblasts .
A high TP expression at tumor sites is correlated with tumor growth , induction of angiogenesis , and metastasis .
Under conditions mimicking the injection environment , the lipoplex - serum interaction was strongly dependent on helper lipid and ionic strength : lipoplexes prepared in 150 mM NaCl or lipoplexes with high ( greater than 33 mol % ) cholesterol were found to aggregate immediately .
It is well established that tobacco smoke is a tumor initiator , but we asked whether it also acts as a tumor promoter once malignant initiation , such as caused by K - ras activation , has taken place .
The permeability of plasma membranes for K + increases 2 . 75 fold , while the passive flux of Na + diminishes .
In damaged and inflamed tissue , LL - 37 functions as a chemoattractant , mitogen and pro - angiogenic factor suggesting that the peptide may potentiate tumor progression .
No effective medical therapies have been developed sofar to enhance blood flow in the legs of patients with peripheral arterial disease ( PAD ) .
In the present study the effects of the 48 - hour administration of granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor ( GM - CSF ) ( 100 U / mL ) or interleukin - 3 ( IL - 3 ) ( 100 U / mL ) on the proliferative activity of leukemic cells and on the intracellular metabolism and cytotoxic efficacy of a subsequent 12 - hour application of cytosine arabinoside ( ara - C ) at doses of 0 . 1 , 1 . 0 , 10 . 0 , and 100 . 0 mumol / L were evaluated on bone marrow cells from 17 patients with acute myeloid leukemia .
BACKGROUND : M - CSF recruits mononuclear phagocytes which regulate processes such as angiogenesis and metastases in tumors .
Keratinocyte progenitor cells from TPA - treated Tg . AC mice were isolated with fluorescence - activated cell sorting and expression was analyzed using cDNA microarray technology .
Increased numbers of mast cells have been associated with several types of angiogenesis .
30 and 50 micrograms / ml of U - 995 , when added to TNF alpha - induced angiogenesis caused discontinuous and disrupted blood vessels .
Microarray analysis indicated significant alterations in expression of genes related to the TGFbeta pathway , as well as genes involved in infertility and extracellular matrix production .
The cortex within 100 microns of the capsule had little vascularization .
These diagrams show the relative rates of glycolysis , the tricarboxylic acid cycle , electron transport , and the malate - aspartate shuttle in these tumors .
In this study , we have expressed wild - type and mutant forms of VASP in endothelial cells to determine in what aspects of cytoskeletal behavior this protein participates .
Expression of hCAP - 18 / LL - 37 was localized to immune and granulosa cells of normal ovarian tissue .
This organ is derived from an upwards growth of the primitive oropharynx , a K5 - expressing tissue .
Although several methods have been used for measuring in vitro angiogenesis , a proper technique has not been developed for identifying in vivo NO - dependent angiogenesis .
Normal cells mostly rely on mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation to produce energy .
Store - operated calcium entry promotes shape change in pulmonary endothelial cells expressing Trp1 .
Telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein complex critically involved in extending and maintaining telomeres .
However many human carcinomas overexpress TGFbeta1 and this is associated with poor patient prognosis and increased frequency of metastasis .
Additional experiments revealed FT to be effective component of UFT ; uracil remained ineffective in the inhibition of angiogenesis .
Similar translocations are found in mouse plasmacytomas and both diseases involve interchanges between one of the immunoglobulin loci and DNA in the vicinity of the myc gene .
FOXO3a is a transcription factor that elicits a protective response to diverse cellular stresses .
Two of 12 cell lines formed xenografts in mice .
In contrast , osteoprotegerin ( OPG ) inhibits osteoclast development .
DESIGN : Paraffin - embedded sections of 37 breast carcinomas were immunostained for survivin , bcl - 2 , bcl - x , and bax .
One year after radiotherapy final median VA was 20 / 400 in both groups .
The nm23 - H1 mRNA expression levels in CBM with lymph nodes metastases were lower than those in CBM without metastases ( P < 0 . 05 ) , while no significance of nm23 - H2 mRNA expression levels was found between CBM with and CBM without metastasis ( P > 0 . 05 ) .
However , recent works demonstrate that Brn - 3a expression is not restricted to neuronal cells , as its activity was detected also in cancer cells of non - neuronal nature .
Furthermore , induction of MKP - 1 correlated with the inhibition of extracellular signal - regulated kinase ( ERK1 / 2 ) and c - Jun N - terminal kinase ( JNK ) activity , whereas p38 activity was minimally affected .
Expression of osteoprotegerin and RANK ligand in breast cancer bone metastasis .
Accordingly , the therapeutic potential of curcumin for breast cancer deserves further study .
These data show that disrupting cytostructure activates the angiogenic switch even in the absence of proliferation and / or hypoxia and restoring organization of malignant clusters reduces VEGF expression and EC activation to levels found in quiescent nonmalignant epithelium .
Moreover , renal carcinoma cell lines also released the soluble form of CD154 into the supernatant .
Phosphorylation of BimL by Pak1 prevents it from interacting with and inactivation of Bcl - 2 , an antiapoptotic protein .
The positive rates of expression of MMP - 9 in CNE1 and CNE1 - GL cells were 30 . 2 % and 98 . 2 % , respectively ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
At univariate analysis , overexpression of c - erbB2 did not affect either DFS or OAS ; tamoxifen had a greater effect on reducing the risk of recurrence than of death .
Since EVT cells possess active invasion - associated genes but are nontumorigenic , our objective was to induce premalignant and then malignant phenotype into a normal EVT cell line in order to identify the molecular basis of tumor progression .
Cooperative activation of Meis1 and Hoxa9 perturbs myeloid differentiation and eventually leads myeloid progenitors to leukemia , yet it remains to be clarified what kinds of subsequent molecular processes are required for development of overt leukemia .
These findings reveal a novel strategy of HPV E6 - induced loss of p53 function that is independent of direct p53 degradation .
GM - CSF and IL - 2 vaccine therapy and pretreatment with gammaIFN represent effective strategies in reducing hepatic tumor .
Patients with low or absence expressing SPARC had significantly worse overall survival and disease - free survival in a Single Factor Analysis ; Cox Regression Analysis , SPARC emerged as an overall survival and disease - free survival independent prognostic factor for colon cancer .
Other normal tissues can also stimulate angiogenesis , but the type of cell giving rise to the angiogenic stimulus is unknown , and the period of angiogenic stimulation is brief .
The EGFR - GEP100 - Arf6 - AMAP1 signaling pathway specific to breast cancer invasion and metastasis .
Wnt signaling , stem cells , and the cellular origin of breast cancer .
Systemic regulation of distraction osteogenesis : a cascade of biochemical factors .
The development of carcinoma was examined in male Wistar rats ( n = 120 ) exposed to N - methyl - N ' - nitro - N - nitrosoguanidine ( MNNG ) in the drinking water ( 83 micrograms / ml ) for 16 weeks .
In contrast , less than 5 % of the DNA was fragmented in cells incubated with GM - CSF plus FBS or GM - CSF alone .
Only 26 protein spots had a positive result , including annexin1 , S100A4 , and so on .
VM is critical for a tumor blood supply and is asscociated with aggressive features and metastasis .
The experimental studies in vitro and in vivo were performed to investigate the effects of carcinostatic agents in the adhesion of cancer cells to endothelial cells .
Furthermore , in support of these findings , we found that sunitinib induced a reduction in the expression of the antiapoptotic molecule Bcl - 2 as well as dephosphorylation of the proapoptotic molecule BAD , which results in the activation of BAD in these cells .
Finally , an immunohistochemistry method ( Hypoxyprobe ) demonstrated that tissue hypoxia was present in the spleen and BM .
After confirming the results in agar - processed cell lines , annexin II and beta ( 2 ) - tubulin expression were found to be lower in tumor cells than in adjacent normal epithelial cells in 100 % and 90 % of the patients ' specimens , respectively .
METHODS : Primary lung cancers ( n = 269 ) and non neoplastic lung tissue ( n = 35 ) were tested for LDH5 expression by immunohistochemistry using a polyclonal LDH5 antibody ( ab53010 ) .
Homeobox genes in hematopoiesis and leukemogenesis .
Investigating the causes of low birth weight in contrasting ovine paradigms .
In addition , cross - talk between the IGF system and other growth factors and integrin receptors has been demonstrated .
In addition , it significantly extends the passage number of MEF cells to more than 30 after retroviral infection , compared with less than 5 for uninfected MEF cells .
With K562 cells Glut - 1 appeared as a broad band of 50 - 60 kDa , whereas with U937 and HL60 cells a diffuse band was observed at approximately 55 kDa .
Transfection of full - length 5T4 cDNA into epithelial cells alters cell - cell contacts and cellular motility .
Our results confirm a close link between the two metabolic enzymes and indicate an alteration in the glucose metabolism in the process of malignant transformation .
This study was designed to investigate the effect of EBV - LMP1 on related factors of metastasis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line CNE1 .
Bovine lactoferrin , a multifunctional glycoprotein , has been shown to strongly inhibit development of azoxymethane ( AOM ) - induced rat colon tumors .
Untransformed CEF and CEF transformed with Rous sarcoma virus also migrated to 9E3 / CEF4 protein , as measured by Boyden single - membrane analysis .
Temporal changes in physiological spaces , protein expression of transporters and enzymes , and enalapril removal were appraised in the metastatic liver tumor model developed from male Wag / Rij rats after the intraportal injection of CC531 colon adenocarcinoma cells ; sham - operated preparations received PBS .
Most Group I compounds except doxorubicin ( which induced DNA fragmentation less effectively than others ) activated caspase 3 more efficiently than Group II compounds .
Together , these results suggest that Tip30 is an intrinsic and negative regulator of MEC proliferation partly through the inhibition of Wisp2 and Igf - 1 expression , and its absence in the mammary gland may predispose MECs to neoplastic transformation .
DNA methylation and expression of HLA - DR alpha .
We have constructed a recombinant adenovirus that expresses murine endostatin that is biologically active both in vitro , as determined in endothelial cell proliferation assays , and in vivo , by suppression of angiogenesis induced by vascular endothelial growth factor 165 .
However , recent identification of a high - Km glucose phosphorylating activity in a range of cancer cells prompted us to characterize glucose phosphorylating enzymes of cancer cells at the molecular level .
Pericytes limit tumor cell metastasis .
Lactate concentrations were significantly higher ( P less than 0 . 001 ) at baseline and all time periods of the glucose tolerance test in dogs with lymphoma when compared with controls .
Associations with cancer risk were estimated using two - sided logistic regression .
In this study we examined the role of p24 proteins in insulin transport .
The antivascular permeability mechanisms deployed by Ang1 are still undefined .
Disruption of Mitf blocked HGF - dependent increases in endogenous c - Met message and protein levels , indicating that HGF regulates its own receptor levels via Mitf .
The elevated fibrinogen level may be associated with invasiveness and lymphatic metastasis .
Since the prognosis of locally advanced and metastatic diseases is poor , increased understanding of the pathogenesis of NPC would be important for discovering novel markers for patients ' management .
This induction of Ets - 1 may be relevant for reendothelialization by regulating the expression of certain genes .
Here , we discuss the possibility for MMPs to contribute to pericyte recruitment at six levels : ( 1 ) direct promotion of pericyte invasion by extracellular matrix degradation ; ( 2 ) stimulation of pericyte proliferation and protection against apoptosis by modification of the ECM ; ( 3 ) activation of pericytes through the release of growth factor bound to the ECM ; ( 4 ) transactivation of angiogenic cell surface receptor ; ( 5 ) propagation of angiogenic signalling as cofactor ; and ( 6 ) recruitment of bone marrow - derived stem cells .
Clinical , laboratory , histopathological , and pharmacological evidence support the notion that the coagulation system , which is activated in most cancer patients , plays an important role in tumor biology .
While endostatin is being investigated for its usefulness in treating solid tumors , its significance in hematologic malignancies is unknown .
We also examined islet endotheliuml / oxidative stress ( OS ) / inflammation - related gene expression , islet vascularization and fibrosis after treatment with the interleukin - 1 ( IL - 1 ) receptor antagonist ( IL - 1Ra ) .
PURPOSE : Members of the transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - beta superfamily play critical roles in regulation of various cellular functions .
Instead , regulation occurred at the mRNA level .
[ 13C ] Lactate production from [ 13C ] glucose , with no detectable uptake of [ 13C ] alanine , indicated that energy production in H5 spheroids was primarily via glycolysis .
The area and the area ratio were measured using a calibrated micrometer .
Importantly , a striking increase in the expression of specific PTPases , LAR and PTP1B , was observed in 3 independently neu transformed cell lines and their derived tumors .
Thirty uterine cervix specimens sampled following conization or total hysterectomy were studied using histology , histoenzymology ( vessel phosphatase alkaline activity ) , and immunohistochemistry ( demonstration of laminin and type IV collagen in epithelium and vessel basement membranes ) .
The hybrid cells , however , exhibited normal morphology , anchorage requirement for proliferation , and largely extended latency periods of tumorigenicity in newborn rats .
We generated monoclonal antibodies that target FGF - BP protein and used them as a tool to evaluate frequency and pattern of FGF - BP expression during the malignant progression of pancreas and colorectal carcinoma in archival tissue samples .
The ability of CLA to inhibit angiogenesis may contribute to its efficacy as a chemopreventive agent .
Mutants of TEL that removed a binding site for the mSin3A corepressor but retained the ETS domain failed to repress stromelysin - 1 .
High density of somatostatin receptors in veins surrounding human cancer tissue : role in tumor - host interaction ?
The cellular and molecular mechanisms by which a tumour cell undergoes metastasis to a predetermined location are largely unknown .
An understanding of the relative contribution of various pathways in the development of tumor vasculature is critical for developing effective and selective therapeutic approaches .
We tested this possibility with in vitro assays using human endothelial cells , as well as in a rodent hindlimb ischemia model .
In tumor studies , P18 was more effective in blocking the angiogenesis and growth of the prostate cancer than parental 34 - mer ; in the renal cell carcinoma , P18 strongly decreased angiogenesis and halted the progression of established tumors .
To explore the mechanisms underlying Evi - 1 - induced oncogenesis , we investigated whether Evi - 1 affects the signaling of transforming growth factor beta ( TGF - beta ) , which inhibits proliferation of a wide range of cell types and is one of the most studied growth regulatory factors .
Preventing VEGFR1 function using antibodies or by the removal of VEGFR1 ( + ) cells from the bone marrow of wild - type mice abrogates the formation of these pre - metastatic clusters and prevents tumour metastasis , whereas reconstitution with selected Id3 ( inhibitor of differentiation 3 ) - competent VEGFR1 + cells establishes cluster formation and tumour metastasis in Id3 knockout mice .
Furthermore , the renal carcinoma cell lines expressed PAF - R .
The relative resistance of PC - 3 cells to drug - induced apoptosis was associated with constitutive Akt activation , higher levels of cFLIP - L and Bcl - 2 , and lower levels of Bax .
Maternal endothelial dysfunction in preeclampsia is associated with increased soluble fms - like tyrosine kinase - 1 ( sFlt - 1 ) , a circulating antagonist of vascular endothelial growth factor and placental growth factor .
TNFalpha treatment in cultured cells resulted in increased gene mutations , gene amplification , micronuclei formation and chromosomal instability .
Multivariate analysis revealed abnormal E - cadherin expression as an independent factor that correlated with submucosal invasion in early gastric cancer .
5 - Azacytidine , a potent DNA methylation inhibitor , induced growth of large colonies in soft agar cultures of Rat 6 or Rat 6 / c - myc cells .
In contrast , rap1GAPII , a negative regulator of Rap1 , did not inhibit ephrin - B1 - induced membrane ruffling .
p63 , a p53 homologue , is a myoepithelial cell marker in the normal mammary gland but p63 - positive neoplastic cells may be found in up to 11 % of invasive breast carcinomas .
These results suggest a role for HS chains of perlecan in improving graft patency by selectively promoting endothelial cell proliferation while modulating platelet adhesion .
Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest is found at the end of this article .
These results suggest that the tumor - bearing animal , even prior to significant cachexia , has an excess demand for energy , the provision of which may be a significant factor in malignant cachexia .
Their relevance in cancer prevention .
BACKGROUND : The murine nm23 gene suppresses the metastatic behavior of malignant rodent tumor lines , and reduced nm23 expression correlates with increased likelihood of lymph node metastases in human breast cancers .
Cells which had been grown in medium containing 1 ng / ml TGF - beta developed colony - forming capacity in soft agar containing epidermal growth factor .
Interaction between cellular and viral genes in the expression of the RSV - induced transformation - specific cell - surface antigen VCSA .
METHODS : Using flow cytometry we evaluated 18 human lung cancer cell lines for the expression of different surface markers on lung cancers suggested to be possible prognostic parameters , including epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) , intercellular adhesion molecule 1 ( ICAM - 1 ) , Fas and CD40 .
After a 48 - hour incubation period , seven groups of animals were treated for 21 days with fluconazole , with group I acting as a control , and groups II to VII receiving adjunct therapy with the corticosteroid prednisolone ( 5 or 10 times daily ; 3 , 9 , or 15 days after infection ) .
The nm23 gene is a conspicuous metastasis - suppressor gene .
Because the intravenously injected lipoplexes migrated within seconds to lungs , we checked whether the effects of immediate contact with serum correlate with lung lipofection efficiency of different DOTAP - based formulations .
HT - 29 human colorectal cancer xenograft model was used and tumour growth , microvessel density and VEGF quantification were performed in tumours after the administration of metronomic CPT - 11 , L - OHP , 5 - FU and their simultaneous combination .
We used these data to establish a convenient , effective and non - radioactive ELISA screening technique for the identification and evaluation of potential inhibitors for VEGFR - 2 kinase .
Here we demonstrated that all retinal MCs express CX3C chemokine receptor 1 ( CX3CR1 ) and that homozygosity for the CX3CR1 M280 allele , which is associated with impaired cell migration , increases the risk of AMD .
Two small RNAs ( 0 . 9 and 0 . 75 kb ) , named Marek ' s disease virus ( MDV ) small RNAs ( MSRs ) and a 10 - kb RNA , all of which map antisense to the MDV ICP4 homolog gene , have been readily detected in MDCC - MSB1 MDV - transformed T - lymphoblastoid cells .
This action is not observed with uninfected CEF , and , therefore , appears to require some expression of the viral src gene in the target cells .
As expected , Ang II - induced sFlt - 1 secretion resulted in the inhibition of endothelial cell migration and in vitro tube formation .
Angiogenesis , a multi - step process which involves endothelial cell proliferation , adhesion , migration , and basement membrane ( BM ) degradation , is essential for tumor metastasis .
METHODS : One hundred and one specimens obtained from surgery were studied by immunohistochemistry using monoclonal anti - E - cadherin , anti - alpha - catenin and anti - p53 antibodies .
The findings in the tissue samples were analyzed with regard to the patients ' risk factors and clinical course .
Although evidence suggesting a role for FAK in morphogenesis is accumulating , current uncertainties regarding its cytoplasmic location and its molecular interactions in vivo make it difficult to reach definitive conclusions regarding the significance of its contributions to developmental processes .
There was a significant correlation between E - cadherin and alpha - catenin expression , but no correlation was found between p53 expression and E - cadherin or alpha - catenin expression .
The mRNA and protein expressions of KISS1 and of MMP - 9 protein were detected by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry respectively in 85 cases of NSCLC , and their matched lymph node metastases .
These data also suggest that folate deficiency may inhibit colorectal carcinogenesis in chronic UC .
Many of their functions suggest that they play important roles in cancers .
These observations , combined with new molecular insights with HIF - 1alpha and c - myc , have rekindled an interest in this important phenotype .
BACKGROUND : The aim of this study was to investigate not only the intratumoral and peritumoral lymphatic vessel density ( ILD and PLD ) but also the expression of vascular endothelial growth factors ( VEGFs ) and to test their correlation with regional lymph nodal metastases in papillary thyroid microcarcinoma ( PTMC ) .
The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate firstly whether different protein expression patterns exist in primary squamous cell lung carcinomas of patients with and without lymph node involvement and secondly , whether or not different patterns exist in tumours with positive lymph nodes .
Apoptosis is detected with the TUNEL method .
We used neutralizing Abs to show that the IFN - inducible protein - 10 and monokine - induced by IFN - gamma chemokines are pivotal in inducing these effects .
CONCLUSIONS : Fluconazole plus adjunct high - dose prednisolone treatment was most effective when administered 9 days after infection .
Cancer is no longer considered by scientists just a jumble of mutated cells .
PURPOSE : The matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) are a family of proteolytic enzymes involved in tumor invasion ; several individual members of which have been implicated in tumor prognosis .
The early closure of all wounds implies that the rabbit ear model may not be valid for chronic wound studies .
Inhibition of c - Jun amino - terminal kinase ( JNK ) blocked type III collagen expression in LRP - 1 - deficient MEFs , suggesting regulation of JNK activity as a mechanism by which LRP - 1 controls mRNA expression .
In vivo , tumors derived from cell clones expressing high levels of VEGF displayed significantly enhanced angiogenesis and more aggressive growth .
Molecular biology of cervical cancer and its precursors .
LRP - 1 also is implicated in integrin maturation .
It was thought that potent antiangiogenic effect of cRGD - HL was probably due to the interference of alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) - mediated interaction , resulting in the enhanced antitumoral activity against SCC7 tumor .
This was associated with a approximately 60 % reduction in tumor - derived blood vessels by quantitative morphometry of CD31 - stained tumor areas , and appearance of endothelial cell apoptosis by internucleosomal DNA fragmentation in vivo .
Recently , knock - out mice of homeobox genes by targeted disruption have also been used to examine their hematological effect .
CONCLUSIONS : Survivin functions as a novel upstream regulator of mitochondrial - dependent apoptosis , and molecular targeting of this pathway results in anticancer activity via a dual mechanism of induction of tumor cell apoptosis and suppression of angiogenesis .
This compound inhibits cellular ATP production owing to its action on glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation ; however , the specific metabolic steps and mechanisms of 3 - BrPA action in human hepatocellular carcinomas , particularly its effects on mitochondrial energetics , are poorly understood .
Vascular grade was not related to histology , grade , proliferation index ( Ki67 ) , or EGFR or p53 expression .
However , DMI inhibited FA - induced , GR - mediated transcription when both agents were given together .
An immediate decrease in corneal clouding was observed in groups treated with additional low - or high - dose prednisolone from day 9 after inoculation .
To analyze the contribution of VEGF - C to lymph node metastasis , its corresponding gene was stably introduced into HEC1A cells ( HEC1A / VEGF - C ) , which then produced more than 10 times the amount of VEGF - C .
Results from the present investigation reveal that cultured primary skin fibroblasts cease to proliferate once they reach confluence ; these cells are thus contact inhibited in vitro .
Cox proportional hazards multivariate analysis ( MVA ) was used to determine the relation of MDM2 to the endpoints .
To investigate the endothelial proliferation and the potential signaling pathways affected by PTEN methylation , proliferating cell nuclear antigen as well as phosphor - Akt and phosphor - Erk1 , 2 were detected by immunofluorescence and Western blot , respectively , in CCM specimens .
This decrease persisted for the remaining 2 weeks of treatment .
Oocytes in double - mutant females showed normal localization of brca2 and pou5f1 transcripts to the animal pole and vasa transcripts to the vegetal pole , but had a polarized rather than symmetrical nucleus with the distribution of nucleoli and chromosomes to opposite nuclear poles ; this result revealed a novel role for Brca2 in establishing or maintaining oocyte nuclear architecture .
Using a combination of two dimensional electrophoresis ( 2 - DE ) and MALDI - TOF mass spectrometry , a total of 125 proteins and their post - translational modification forms or isoforms were found to be differentially expressed in the cell lines .
Fas - signaling and effects on receptor tyrosine kinase signal transduction in human breast epithelial cells .
This protein has been shown to be a protein kinase that phosphorylates on tyrosine residues .
We revealed that expression of p53 proteins with amino - acid substitutions at codons 175 ( R175H ) , 248 ( R248W ) , and 273 ( R273H ) , representing the hot - spots of mutations in various human tumors , increased the number of vessels in HCT116 human colon carcinoma xenografts and , as a result , accelerated their growth .
Also , rk - 2 diminished the expression of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 in the mouse lung which induces tumor metastasis and angiogenesis .
Preliminary data suggest that TnI may be competing with bFGF for interaction with the bFGF receptor on responsive cells .
Moreover , we observed an increase in apoptosis of latent gene - expressing cells after the pharmacologic deletion of the vGPCR - expressing cells .
The results suggest that in this strain , the malate - citrate shuttle is not an effective pathway for transferring glycolytic reducing equivalents from cytosol to mitochondria .
Only one eye received a second PDT treatment due to choroidal neovascularization .
Activation of protein kinase C ( PKC ) induces phenotypic changes in the morphology of microvascular endothelial cells that affect major functions of the microvasculature .
CONCLUSION : Quantitative assessment is more sensitive as a measure of cellular protein content as compared with standard optical density measurements .
A feasibility study was carried out to develop the Ahn / Mustoe lapine wound model for systematic investigation of the effects of electrical stimulation on ischemic wound therapy .
To identify the underlying mechanism involved in such growth - factor / serum independent growth of Galpha ( 12 ) QL - transformed NIH3T3 , we carried out a two - dimensional differential proteome analysis of Galpha ( 12 ) QL - transformed NIH3T3 cells and cells expressing vector control .
In addition , although VEGF receptors were higher in tumors than normal kidney , there was a significant up - regulation of only flt - 1 ( P = 0 . 003 ) but not KDR ( P = 0 . 12 ) or flt - 4 ( P = 0 . 09 ) .
Prior studies showed enhancement of such carcinogenesis by repeated 20 rad head and neck X - radiation exposures , and it was proposed that one possible mechanism was radiogenic alteration of the functional microvasculature in a manner which favored subsequent tumor development .
The soluble factors they release in its presence arrest the cycle of endothelial cells ( EC ) , inhibit in vitro angiogenesis , negatively modulate the production of matrix metalloproteinase - 9 , and the ability of EC to adhere to vitronectin and up - regulate ICAM - 1 and VCAM - 1 expression .
As a consequence the cyclin D1 ( bcl - 1 ) gene is juxtaposed to the immunoglobulin heavy chain enhancer E mu .
Overexpression of JNK1 or p38 was sufficient to induce HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression .
Cyclin D1 / bcl - 1 cooperates with myc genes in the generation of B - cell lymphoma in transgenic mice .
Medical therapy for intermittent claudication .
This has been suggested as one of the mechanisms to explain the mammography paradox for women aged 40 - 49 years .
Both cis - 9 , trans - 11 and trans - 10 , cis - 12 CLA isomers were effective in inhibiting angiogenesis in vitro in a dose - dependent fashion .
The role of BRCA1 in sporadic breast and ovarian cancers remains elusive .
Loss of opticin expression by this tissue is associated with and could contribute towards neoplastic transformation .
In the 380 patients who were ITC negative and showed low VEGFR - 1 expression , synchronous ( at the time of surgery ) and heterochronous ( recurrent ) metastases were not observed .
Treatment of REF or REF expressing full - length T antigen , an N - terminal segment , or T251 - 708 resulted in increased expression of the p53 - responsive MDM2 gene ; apoptosis occurred through a p53 - dependent pathway , as p53 - null cells expressing these T antigens were resistant to 5 - FU - induced apoptosis .
It is therefore highly likely that these alterations are an important component in tumor resistance to therapy .
Hereditary paraganglioma / pheochromocytoma and inherited succinate dehydrogenase deficiency .
Surprisingly , functional p53 was retained in vivo , even after transplantation , whereas explanted tumor cells displayed rapid allele loss in vitro .
This ectopic ATP synthase catalyzes ATP synthesis and is inhibited by angiostatin over a wide pH range .
Emerging evidence shows that oncogenes that drive the cancer - promoting signals also drive the altered metabolism .
LVI was correctly identified by D2 - 40 ( D2 - 40 + ) in 70 out of 254 tumors ( 28 % ) as compared to 40 tumors ( 16 % ) by routine HE staining ( HE + ) .
Some potentially promising prognostic , diagnostic , and therapeutic modalities for tumor angiogenesis and metastatic disease are also discussed .
PEDF is an important negative regulator of angiogenic activity of aqueous humor .
Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) is strongly associated with the development of HCC in people chronically infected with the virus , but the mechanism of viral involvement remains unclear .
Twenty - one percent of clinically unaffected family members had elevated levels of bFGF , and 13 % of patients with EBS had elevated levels of bFGF .
Osteotomy fracture healing without the traction stimulus failed to induce a corresponding increase in these factors .
In addition , when 200 micrograms U - 995 was injected i . p . into mice it suppressed sarcoma - 180 cell growth and B16 - F10 mouse melanoma cell metastasis in vivo .
We conducted a retrospective medical record review of patients treated with rofecoxib for acute haemarthrosis , chronic synovitis , target joint or pain .
Promoting angiogenesis via delivery of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and other angiogenic factors is both a potential therapy for cardiovascular diseases and a critical aspect for tissue regeneration .
Further investigations of this pathway with regard to preventing peritoneal fibrosis should be performed to maintain the integrity of the peritoneal membrane in peritoneal dialysis patients .
The patterns of lymphatic vessels , the expression of VEGFs , and their correlation with neck metastases were assessed .
RhoA activation promotes transformation and loss of thyroid cell differentiation interfering with thyroid transcription factor - 1 activity .
Intriguingly , metabolic stress triggers primarily an adaptive ( rather than pro - apoptotic ) p53 response , and p53 is emerging as an important regulator of metabolic homeostasis .
This difference in invasiveness was not caused by differences in gelatinase production , which was constant within each group of transfectants .
Ectopic expression of SEMA3B or SEMA3F reduced soft - agar colony formation , adhesion , and cell invasion of ovarian cancer cell cultures .
Rofecoxib was used for eight acute haemarthrosis , four target joints , seven cases of synovitis and 12 episodes of pain .
Our data align osteonectin with other matrix - components and adhesion molecules in affecting potential metastatic spreading of transformed cells .
Dopamine regulates phosphorylation of VEGF receptor 2 by engaging Src - homology - 2 - domain - containing protein tyrosine phosphatase 2 .
To verify that P18 acts in the same manner as PEDF , we used immunohistochemistry to measure PEDF targets , vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 , and CD95 ligand expression in P18 - treated vasculature .
Vital imaging using high - resolution ultrasound enhanced with contrast microbubbles revealed that the effects of LeTx on tumor perfusion were remarkably rapid ( less than 24 h ) and resulted in a marked reduction of perfusion within the tumor but not in nontumor tissues .
Concentrations achieved in vivo in tumors lead to single - agent anti - tumor activity at non - toxic doses .
This mutant enhanced the steady - level and transcriptional activity of ER .
Notch signaling regulates intestinal development , homeostasis and tumorigenesis , but its precise downstream mechanism remains largely unknown .
In all cases , only inhibition of PKCalpha inhibited each of these functions when compared to the inhibition of PKCbeta .
2G7 did not inhibit MDA - 231 primary tumor or metastases formation , nor did it stimulate NK cell - mediated cytotoxicity in beige NK - deficient nude mice .
The more pronounced effects of Bmi - 1 over - expression in culture were largely attributable to the attenuated induction of p16 ( Ink4a ) and p19 ( Arf ) in culture , proteins that are generally not expressed by neural stem / progenitor cells in young mice in vivo .
The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of tricyclic antidepressant desipramine ( DMI ) on the growth inhibition and translocation of the glucocorticoid receptor ( GR ) from the cytoplasm to the nucleus in cancerous and noncancerous cell lines and the effect of DMI on GR - mediated transcription .
Although the importance of VEGF - A has been shown in renal carcinomas , the contribution of these new ligands in kidney tumors is not clear .
Here , we provide an overview of the many roles of RUNX1 in hematopoietic self - renewal and differentiation and summarize the information that is currently available on the many mechanisms of RUNX1 deregulation in human leukemia .
In only 3 out of 13 cases , representing patients with adenocarcinomas of the stomach receiving chemotherapy , was ras p21 detected at elevated levels , whereas in patients with the following types of cancer no substantial change in serum ras p21 was observed ; nine with breast , 5 colon , 5 lung , 5 ovarian and 5 hepatocellular carcinomas .
Neuroblastoma cells and Chang hepatocytes are then plated separately with the conditioned medium and their own standard growth medium as controls .
Patients ' reading vision could not be saved for a long - term run .
These results suggest that non - thrombogenic agonists or antagonists of the activated thrombin receptor can be used as modulators of angiogenesis .
Erbb2 suppresses DNA damage - induced checkpoint activation and UV - induced mouse skin tumorigenesis .
Interference with Dll4 - Notch signaling may be particularly desirable in tumors that have highly induced Dll4 - Notch pathway .
A two sided correlation between the expression of TKTL1 and LDH5 could be shown ( p = 0 . 002 ) within the overall cohort as well as for each grading and pN group .
At intervals of four to 14 days , the animals were challenged by intrastromal inoculation with 10 , 000 plaque - forming units of viable HSV .
One of these mutants ( CU2 ) increases the rate of glucose transport only slightly and does not render the infected cells fully anchorage independent or tumorigenic ( although other transformation parameters are fully induced ) .
The authors report on a case series of 13 patients with recurrent heavily pretreated malignant glioma that was treated with the combination of bevacizumab and irinotecan .
The latter effect is called reperfusion injury and can cause as much damage as the ischemia .
Twenty mature male New Zealand white rabbits ( 3 kg weight ) were employed to evaluate the effects of two empirically selected stimulation paradigms applied continuously for 7 - 21 days , using each animal as its own control .
In addition , silencing of S6K1 induced apoptosis accompanied by a decrease in the phosphorylation of BAD and Bcl - 2 , similar to that observed with sunitinib treatment .
Angiogenesis plays an important role in many types of cancer .
The antitumor activity of cRGD - HL was also evaluated by monitoring tumor growth and microvessel formation in squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC7 ) tumor .
The identification of Erk1 , 2 as triggered signaling in the lesions may be valuable for the development of effective therapy for this disease .
This dual activity , together with the initiation of signal transduction pathways by uPAR , is believed to influence cellular behaviour in angiogenesis , inflammation , wound repair and tumor progression / metastasis and open up the way for uPAR - based therapeutic approaches .
Anti - Fas treatment resulted in decreased p53 protein levels , while bcl - 2 and bax protein levels remained unaffected .
Invasion assay and migration assay showed that the invasion and migration of CNE1 - GL cell were higher than those of CNE1 cells ( P < 0 . 01 ) .
Tumours from younger patients had a higher grade of angiogenesis ( P = 0 . 05 ) .
Similarly , perivascular inflammatory T - cells expressed more antiapoptotic proteins in irreversible PHT ( p less than 0 . 01 ) .
In these transformants , mitogen depletion elicited an increase in the Rb level comparable to that in normal C2 cells ; wt SVLT , however , promoted the phosphorylation of a large part of the induced Rb .
All markers for stimulated wounds showed increased activity relative to non - stimulated control wounds between 7 and 14 days following injury , with peak activity at 14 days .
The results indicate that tumor tissue of RCC liberates VEGF into the systemic blood flow and that s - VEGF is a possible marker for RCC .
Minimal contribution of marrow - derived endothelial precursors to tumor vasculature .
Ras p21 onco - protein in the sera of mice carrying an experimentally induced tumor and in human cancer patients .
Detection of lymphovascular invasion in early breast cancer by D2 - 40 ( podoplanin ) : a clinically useful predictor for axillary lymph node metastases .
Furthermore , the Matrigel plugs with AdCMV . VEGF165 demonstrated hemoglobin content fourfold higher than the plugs with AdCMV . beta gal .
Since all these cells lack any mRNA for collagen , XII , it seems likely that the synthesis is blocked at the transcriptional level .
The baseline visual acuity was similar in the various study groups .
RESULTS : Chang hepatocytes grown in the coculture conditioned media have an increase in TNF - alpha and Fas ligand .
Role of the fibrinolytic and matrix metalloproteinase systems in development of adipose tissue .
Sixty - eight percent of tumors in this group were vimentin positive and 88 % of all vimentin - positive tumors fell into this category .
Eligible patients had CNV in which the central boundary of the lesion was between 1 and 199 microm from the geometric center of the foveal avascular zone ( FAZ ) .
The effect of translocations on the cellular myc gene in Burkitt lymphomas .
We also report that SPARC arrests monomeric collagen - supported smooth muscle cell proliferation in the late G1 - phase of the cell cycle in the absence of an effect on cell shape or on levels of cyclin - dependent kinase inhibitors .
Point mutations of H - ras however , were identified in three distant metastatic pituitary tumor secondaries , but not in their respective primary pituitary carcinomas , or in six invasive adenomas .
In the control group ( group 1 ) no further management was undertaken .
The pharmacokinetics of STX243 were examined at two different doses using adult female rats .
Expression of cyclooxygenase ( COX ) - 2 plays a key role in tumorigenesis and development and peroxisome proliferator - activated receptor gamma ( PPARgamma ) has been implicated in the control of COX - 2 expression in some tissues .
On the other hand cancer cells overexpress insulin - like growth factors and their receptors which mimic many activities of insulin .
RESULTS : Twenty - one eyes had juxtafoveal CNV .
Rat - 1 cells which had been transformed with the activated Ha - ras - 1 gene from human EJ bladder carcinoma cells were fused with diploid embryonic rat fibroblasts .
Malate - citrate cycle during glycolysis and glutaminolysis in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells .
VEGF was also increased in parallel to enhanced IGF - 1 expression .
Furthermore , thrombin increases the secretion of VEGF and enhances the expression and protein synthesis of matrix metalloprotease - 9 and alpha ( v ) beta ( 3 ) integrin in human prostate cancer PC - 3 cells .
Hepatitis B virus integration event in human chromosome 17p near the p53 gene identifies the region of the chromosome commonly deleted in virus - positive hepatocellular carcinomas .
Furthermore , the expression levels of NF - kappaB - regulated metastasis - related molecules , such as fibronectin , beta1 integrin , MMP - 1 , - 2 , - 9 , and - 14 , and VEGF - C , were upregulated in the highly metastatic cells .
The data support the hypothesis that increased epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) and transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - alpha expression is associated with early events in malignant transformation of pleomorphic adenoma ( PA ) .
The growth factor was found to reside in mast cell granules and was identified as heparin by sequential purification and enzymatic degradation .
Tissue integration and implant characteristics of various biomaterials commonly used for inguinal hernia repair have not been studied extensively .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the effect of osteopontin silencing on the invasion and apoptosis of U251 cells .
The marked induction of angiogenesis in glioblastomas suggests that it is a necessary part of malignant progression ; however , the precise molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of brain tumour growth and angiogenesis remain unresolved .
Fas and FasL proteins were increased approximately twofold in the RM - 9 - IL12 tumors compared with the RM - 9 control tumors as determined by Western blot and immunohistochemical analyses ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
The ability of LRP - 1 to regulate expression of the factors identified here suggests a role for LRP - 1 in determining blood vessel structure and in angiogenesis .
Hypermethylation and loss of final sigma expression are the most consistent molecular alterations in breast cancer identified so far .
In T - cell ALL with t ( 10 ; 14 ) translocation , the HOX 11 gene is deregulated .
Cotreatment of cell lines with a hormone and its specific antagonist blocked the effect of the hormone .
Blood and vascular disorders underlie a plethora of pathologic conditions and are the single most frequent cause of human disease .
It is also clear that diffusible angiogenic stimuli can be released not only from most solid tumors , but also from at least three non - neoplastic cells .
The Erbb2 receptor is activated by UV irradiation , the primary cause of non - melanoma skin cancer .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : In this study all of the major members of the matrix metalloproteinase ( MMP - 1 , MMP - 2 , MMP - 3 , MMP - 7 , MMP - 9 , MMP - 13 , MT1 - MMP and MT2 - MMP ) / tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase ( TIMP - 1 , TIMP - 2 , and TIMP - 3 ) system have been investigated by immunohistochemistry in a series ( n = 90 ) of stage III ( Dukes ' C ) colorectal cancers .
Promoting angiogenesis via manipulation of VEGF responsiveness with notch signaling .
A standardized surgical procedure incorporated a hybrid stimulation system comprising an implantable mini - stimulator and surface electrodes , with creation of repeatable ischemic wounds .
Angiogenesis is induced by soluble factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) released from tumor cells in hypoxia .
Experiments with nu / nu mice , nonobese diabetic - SCID mice , or activated spc enriched in specific cell subpopulations demonstrated that CD4 ( + ) , CD8 ( + ) , and NK cells are all needed to mediate the full anti - angiogenetic effect of IL - 12 .
On the contrary , metronomic 5 - FU + L - OHP + CPT - 11 therapy did not affect the microvascular count .
It focuses on the role of IL - 18 modulation in tumours , infections and autoimmune and inflammatory diseases .
The cyclin - dependent kinase inhibitor p21WAF1 level was found to be decreased within 12 h of ciprofloxacin treatment and disappeared completely when HTB9 cells were treated with 200 microg / ml ciprofloxacin for 24 h .
We quantified CYR61 , CTGF , WISP - 1 , and NOV mRNA expression levels in samples from sixty - six primary gliomas and five normal brain samples using quantitative real - time PCR assay .
It also promotes endothelial differentiation into capillary - like structures in an in vitro assay and is angiogenic in the chick chorionallantoic membrane .
The level of necrosis , as measured by propidium iodide internalization , increased significantly after 24 hours exposure to Sim at 50 microM ( p < 0 . 01 ) .
However , monolayer cultures differ greatly from the complex environmental conditions generated in solid tumors that develop inhomogeneous hypoxic and necrotic regions .
A growing body of evidence indicates that deregulation of stem cell fate determinants is a hallmark of many types of malignancies .
The study population comprised 23 patients with histopathologically proven primary brain tumours ; 14 had high - grade gliomas , and nine low - grade brain neoplasms .
OBJECTIVE : To determine the expression and clinical significance of Merlin protein in non - small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) .
We investigated here whether 6 popular antitumor compounds modify the cytotoxic activity of NaF against human squamous cell carcinoma ( HSC - 2 ) and human promyelocytic leukemia ( HL - 60 ) cell lines .
The rats were divided into 4 groups .
In addition , ischemia induces expression of HIF1alpha in hypoxic tissue .
The integration of vascular grading in clinical trials on adjuvant chemotherapy and / or radiotherapy could substantially contribute in defining groups of operable patients who might benefit from cytotoxic treatment .
Four out of seven control grafts were patent with endothelial cell lining at six months , but three were occluded and one of the four grafts was still covered with a thrombus layer .
KISS1 methylation was associated with low KISS1 transcript expression by quantitative RT - PCR ( P = 0 . 037 ) .
Thus , we show that deregulation of CDK expression in the primitive oral epithelium plays a unique function , providing a selective advantage that gives rise to transgene - positive TA - like pituitary cells .
PURPOSE : Recent studies of cancer metastasis have focused on the role of premetastatic gene expression and circulating tumor cells .
Increased levels of the canalicular ATP transporters , P - glycoprotein , multidrug resistance - associated protein 2 ( Mrp2 ) , and bile salt export pump ( Bsep ) at week 2 ( P < 0 . 05 ) , unchanged levels of Ntcp , Oatp1a1 , Oatp1a4 , and Mct2 , but decreased levels of cytochrome P450 3a2 ( Cyp3a2 ) and glutathione S - transferase ( Gst4 - 4 ) at week 4 ( P < 0 . 05 ) were observed in peritumor vs . sham - operated liver tissues with Western blotting .
Here , we show that the proto - oncogene N - myc promoter was down - regulated by WT1 in transient transfection assays .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : We analyzed antigenicity , hydrophilicity , and charge distribution of the angioinhibitory epitope ( the 34 - mer ) and designed three peptides covering its COOH terminus , P14 , P18 , and P23 .
One of the most common signatures of highly malignant tumors is their capacity to metabolize more glucose to lactic acid than their tissues of origin .
Previously , we reported that topical exposure to Cum - OOH caused formation of free radicals and oxidative stress in the skin of vitamin E - deficient mice .
Its suppression has also been shown to be associated with malignant transformation of epithelial cells .
TTF - 1 immunohistochemistry could focus the search for the primary tumor for patients presenting with brain metastasis as the initial manifestation .
Like in Apc ( Delta716 ) mice , loss of the wild - type Apc allele was confirmed for all polyps examined in the Apc ( neoR ) and Apc ( neoF ) mice .
Thus , metabolically - altered islet endothelium might affect the beta - cell microenvironment and contribute to progressive type 2 diabetic beta - cell dysfunction in GK rats .
This metastatic ability was enhanced remarkably after in vivo tumor growth ( subcutaneous tumor formation in nude mice ) accompanied by increased mRNA expression and gene amplification of the human - derived K - ras oncogene , while it declined gradually as the passage number increased in vitro , with corresponding decreases of gene amplification and mRNA expression .
Mathematical models and empirical observations are used to define the adaptive advantage of aerobic glycolysis that would explain its remarkable prevalence in human cancers .
While accumlating evidence for the function of MTSS1 support the concept that it is unlikely to be a metastasis suppressor , but actually acts as a scaffold protein that interacts with multiple partners to regulate actin dynamics .
Hck - mediated cellular transformation of murine fibroblasts is reverted by ectopic expression of a membrane - anchored allele of Cbl as assessed by the cellular morphology , suppression of anchorage independent growth , and an overall reduction in the total tyrosine phosphorylation levels within the cells .
However , unlike tumor invasion , trophoblast invasion of the uterus is stringently controlled in situ by local molecules such as transforming growth factor ( TGF ) beta .
METHODS : Tumor biopsy specimens and serum were obtained from 37 neuroblastoma patients ; adrenal biopsy sections and sera of 7 normal children served as controls .
Survivin expression in breast carcinoma : correlation with apoptosis and prognosis .
The cell type specific glycosylation protects Sp1 and HIF1alpha from proteosome degradation and plays an important and novel role in the regulation of VEGF in DCN transfected MCE cells .
Energy metabolism of freshly harvested Ehrlich ascites tumour cells in the presence of 5 mM glucose and / or 0 . 5 mM glutamine was studied .
Besides regulating leukocyte trafficking in normal and injured tissues , several chemokines may positively or negatively regulate angiogenesis .
The results were analysed using quantitative immunohistochemical analysis .
Folate supplementation may reduce the risk of colorectal dysplasia and cancer in subjects with chronic ulcerative colitis ( UC ) .
In addition , the microtubule - destabilizing agents cause prominent changes in endothelial cell morphology , an action associated with rapid vascular collapse in vivo .
This earlier apoptosis was accompanied by a Bcl - 2 decrease and a p53 increase .
An angiostatin - mimetic activity has recently been observed using a polyclonal antibody against the beta catalytic subunit of ATP synthase .
Circulating endothelial cells and their precursors declined and remained low in responders , whereas plasma vascular endothelial growth factor trended to decline in responding patients but increase in nonresponders .
Inactivation of androgen - induced regulator ARD1 inhibits androgen receptor acetylation and prostate tumorigenesis .
RUNX1 DNA - binding mutations and RUNX1 - PRDM16 cryptic fusions in BCR - ABL + leukemias are frequently associated with secondary trisomy 21 and may contribute to clonal evolution and imatinib resistance .
Both cell types were found to express Trp1 , but neither expressed Trp3 nor Trp6 .
Prostaglandin E2 production was measured by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay .
The mechanism of this potent collaboration is elucidated in this study of Runx2 / MYC mice .
[ Intraepithelial neoplasm of the uterine cervix and angiogenesis : morphologic study ]
An unusual primary adenomatoid tumour arising in the normal liver is described .
Microsatellite regions in the type II transforming growth factor - beta receptor ( TGF - beta RII ) gene appear to be targets for mutation in some cancers displaying microsatellite instability ( replication error phenotype , RER + ) .
RESULTS : The expression ofVEGF protein was most pronounced in AP ( ANOVA , p = 0 . 033 ) .
Exposure to combinations of paclitaxel or carboplatin and 317615 x 2HCl with MX - 1 cells in culture resulted in cell survival that reflected primarily additivity of the two agents .
Here clinical outcome is updated and its correlation with new immunological data is shown .
Correlating the results of these two methods and clinicopathological factors , the c - kit expression and c - kit gene mutation rates were 95 . 0 % ( 19 / 20 ) and 0 in benign GIST , and were 98 . 4 % ( 61 / 62 ) , 54 . 8 % ( 34 / 62 ) in malignant GIST .
Injection of indomethacin , a nonselective COX inhibitor , on the day of ovulation and the following day decreased serum levels of progesterone , as did injection of the selective COX - II inhibitor NS - 398 .
Bradycardia - induced coronary angiogenesis is dependent on vascular endothelial growth factor .
Transcriptional and post - translation regulation of the Tie1 receptor by fluid shear stress changes in vascular endothelial cells .
c - Ski , originally identified as a proto - oncogene product , is an important negative regulator of transforming growth factor ( TGF ) - beta family signaling through interaction with Smad2 , Smad3 , and Smad4 .
BACKGROUND : The Ras association domain family 1 ( RASSF1 ) gene is a Ras effector encoding two major mRNA forms , RASSF1A and RASSF1C , derived by alternative promoter selection and alternative mRNA splicing .
[ The erbB gene family : significance for tumor development , prognosis and new therapeutic modalities ] .
Enoxaparine Na had no harmful effects on wound healing , and HBO therapy increased the process of wound healing .
No significant association was demonstrated between VEGF - B , VEGF - C , flt - 1 , KDR , and flt - 4 with patient sex , patient age , or tumor size ( P greater than 0 . 05 ) .
Gastric cancer metastasized when ITCs were observed in the presence of VEGFR - 1 .
Our results strongly suggest that estradiol has a critical role in the regulation of IL - 8 in normal human breast tissue and human breast cancer .
At week 4 , however , the sinusoidal blood volume and albumin Disse space in tumor - bearing livers were slightly lower compared with those of shams .
Antioxidant N - acetyl - l - aspartate ( NAC ) decreased vessels number in tumors formed by cells with inactivated p53 and inhibited their growth .
Angiotensin II induces soluble fms - Like tyrosine kinase - 1 release via calcineurin signaling pathway in pregnancy .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : To evaluate the antiangiogenic activity of EPOX , we did cell viability , cell cycle , tube formation assay in vitro , and Matrigel plug assay in vivo .
To determine how p18 and p27 genetically interact with Men1 , the tumor suppressor gene mutated in familial MEN1 , we characterized p18 - Men1 and p27 - Men1 double mutant mice .
This pathway will continue to be a focus of investigation , particularly with respect to targeted experimental chemotherapeutics .
Reciprocal bone marrow transplants that involved both wild - type and PECAM - 1 - deficient mice revealed that the impaired angiogenic response resulted from a loss of endothelial , but not leukocyte , PECAM - 1 .
Hypoxia rapidly induced both JNK1 and p38 activity in these cells .
Polyphenols are natural antioxidants that are thought to contribute to prevention of cardiovascular disease and malignancy .
A specific VEGF receptor - 2 inhibitor demonstrated the importance of glycogen metabolism and pentose cycle pathway .
In addition , the model supports local tissue hypoxia in the liver and spleen , coupled with increased erythropoeitin signaling and erythropoiesis in the spleen and BM , and suppression of mechanisms that contribute to genomic stability , events that could be contributing factors to hemangiosarcoma formation .
The expressions of 14 - 3 - 3zeta and beta - catenin were detected by western blotting , double labeling immunofluorescence , confocal laser scanning microscopy and immunohistochemistry .
Previously we demonstrated that N1 ( ic ) and N2 ( ic ) could transform E1A immortalized baby rat kidney cells ( RKE ) in vitro .
However , the mechanism by which Notch oncoproteins ( generically termed here as N ( ic ) ) induce neoplastic transformation is not known .
Despite several advances in therapeutic options , the disease remains incurable .
The chemokine receptor CXCR4 is associated with the biological behavior of cancer , but few studies have addressed the expression and function of CXCR4 in human gastric cancer and its impact on disease prognosis .
It is regulated by numerous angiogenic factors , one of the most important being vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
We found that FGF - BP is dramatically upregulated during the initiation of colorectal and pancreatic adenocarcinoma .
Due to the importance of this pathway , it is clear that p53 disruptions may relate directly to a patient ' s prognosis .
In order to understand the underlying mechanism by which TSC phenolic fraction potentiates BPDE - induced tumorigenicity , we examined its effect on the activation of two transcription factors AP - 1 and NF - kappaB which are known to be influenced by established tumor promoter TPA .
The different expression / activation of apoptosis - related factors appears to influence the sensitization of prostate carcinoma cells by TRAIL .
Here we characterized the effects of mutant CK1delta variants with impaired kinase activity on SV40 - induced cell transformation in vitro , and on SV40 - induced mammary carcinogenesis in vivo in a transgenic / bi - transgenic mouse model .
This observed genomic instability will be of value in predicting the potential metastatic behavior of these aggressive pituitary tumors .
More apoptotic tumor cells were seen under the transmission electron microscope .
Mechanical strain induced CBP - mediated acetylation of histones 3 and 4 at the SRF - binding site and within the CCN1 gene coding region .
This allowed coexpression of the two proteins and a comparison with the same vector containing either v - erbA or v - myb only .
We have described striking increases in VEGF protein in both neurons and glia after pilocarpine - induced status epilepticus in the brain .
Fractional tumor growth was determined and immunohistochemical analysis of tumors was used to determine degree of angiogenesis .
Interleukins ( ILs ) may mediate regression or progression of cancer .
Here , we show that gene transfer - induced p75 ( NTR ) expression impairs the survival , proliferation , migration , and adhesion capacities of cultured ECs and endothelial progenitor cells ( EPCs ) and inhibits angiogenesis in vitro .
We conclude that GR - mediated MAPK inactivation contributes to cell survival and that the potential transcriptional targets of this inhibition can be identified from large scale gene array analysis .
Clinical significance of plasma endostatin in acute myeloid leukemia / myelodysplastic syndrome .
DNA fragmentation occurred in response to anti - Fas treatment .
The Akt / mTOR pathway assures the synthesis of HIF - 1alpha protein in a glucose - and reoxygenation - dependent manner in irradiated tumors .
Conversion of these sites to alanine residues greatly reduced transforming activity , and although the mutant 55 - kDa protein was found to interact with p53 at normal levels , it was somewhat defective for suppression of p53 transactivation activity .
These experimental facts indicated that acquisition of metastatic ability coupled with the function of K - ras oncogene was conditional in nature , being strongly affected by in vivo tumor circumstances .
Research on age - related impaired wound healing suggests that the decline in sex steroid hormones with age may have a substantial influence on the inflammatory response in vivo .
To investigate the potential role of BI - 1 in promoting cell growth and tumorigenesis , in the present study we overexpressed the BI - 1 gene in NIH3T3 cells using the lentivirus - mediated gene expression system .
The safety of verteporfin is directly dependent upon the appropriate integration of dosage , infusion and light activation required for a suitable pharmacotherapeutic outcome .
The epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGF - R , c - erbB1 ) , Her - 2 / neu ( c - erbB2 ) , and c - erbB3 are members of the erbB - family .
When used appropriately , and with adequate patient education regarding photosensitivity , the risk - benefit of verteporfin for the medical treatment of neovascular AMD is favourable .
Persistent high serum levels of endostatin ( 605 - 1740 ng / ml ; mean , 936 ng / ml ) were achieved after systemic administration of the vector to nude mice , which resulted in significant reduction of the growth rates and the volumes of JC breast carcinoma and Lewis lung carcinoma ( P less than 0 . 001 and P less than 0 . 05 , respectively ) .
MEK5 / ERK5 signaling modulates endothelial cell migration and focal contact turnover .
One limitation of these approaches , however , may be the failure to normalize myocardial perfusion , due to the concomitant presence or small of resistance vessel disease .
The ras - encoded proteins are similar to regulatory G - proteins and are candidates for the unknown G - protein that modulates phosphatidylinositol ( PI ) turnover .
Downregulation of c - FLIP sensitizes DU145 prostate cancer cells to Fas - mediated apoptosis .
No harmful side effects were attributed to TEMF .
Also , serum VEGF was significantly higher in patients with PDR than in those without DR .
Elevated expression of the junB proto - oncogene is essential for v - fos induced transformation of Rat - 1 cells .
Taken together , these results demonstrate that overexpression of TIMP - 3 can inhibit angiogenesis and associated tumor growth , and that the antiangiogenic effects of TIMP - 3 appear to be mediated through the inhibition of functional capillary morphogenesis .
Platelet - derived endothelial cell growth - factor ( PD - ECGF ) is similar to the pyrimidine enzyme thymidine phosphorylase ( TP ) .
The average survival time of the RM - 9 - IL12 mice was longer than 53 days , whereas the mean survival for mice transplanted with control RM - 9 cells was only 16 days .
We have evaluated the effect of thalidomide on VEGF secretion , cell migration , adhesion as well as in capillary formation of human endothelial cell line EA . hy 926 .
Microvessel density and ECP % were inversely correlated ( Rho = - 0 . 26 , P = 0 . 001 ) .
Protective function of von Hippel - Lindau protein against impaired protein processing in renal carcinoma cells .
Finally , intraperitoneal injection or oral administration of HTPB efficiently inhibited A549 xenograft tumor growth in vivo without side effects .
In some cancers , syndecan expression has been shown to regulate tumor cell function ( e . g . proliferation , adhesion , and motility ) and serve as a prognostic marker for tumor progression and patient survival .
Parathyroid hormone - related protein ( PTHrP ) is a secreted factor expressed in almost all normal fetal and adult tissues .
They defined also the predominant origin of new vessels from venules and capillaries , and enabled the evolution of proliferating vessels into arterioles and venules to be documented .
The resulting mechanistic model confirms previous work proposing that 2 - BE induces macrophage activation and inflammation in the liver .
In vivo nuclear magnetic resonance analysis of tumor blood flow in linomide - treated animals showed localization of blood vessels almost exclusively to the periphery of the poorly vascularized tumors with a significant reduction of both vascular functionality and vasodilation .
PP mesh resulted in more fibrous encapsulation and stiffness than PF and PS prostheses .
RESULTS : PLGA microspheres with an open - porous structure were formed .
Furthermore , the Y705F / S727E but not the Y705F / S727A mutant induced anchorage - independent growth of noncancerous prostate epithelial cells ( RWPE - 1 ) .
Ectopic decorin expression up - regulates VEGF expression in mouse cerebral endothelial cells via activation of the transcription factors Sp1 , HIF1alpha , and Stat3 .
VEGF165 or AdCMV . beta gal ( 2 x 10 ( 10 ) pfu ) was resuspended in 0 . 5 mL Matrigel and injected subcutaneously into mice .
On the contrary , the constitutive activation of Nrf2 due to mutations in the keap1 gene is characteristically observed in lung cancer cells , suggesting that induced expression of Nrf2 target genes favors the prevalence of cancer cells .
The safety and efficacy of rofecoxib treatment were determined based on subjective patient reports and physical examinations during follow - up clinic visits .
The UFO locus is evolutionarily conserved between vertebrate species .
The present study evaluated the effect of cumene hydroperoxide ( Cum - OOH ) on the induction of activator protein - 1 ( AP - 1 ) , which is linked to the expression of genes regulating cell proliferation , growth and transformation .
Surprisingly , the level of leukocyte adhesion in ear venules of mice with a large flank tumor was also reduced significantly .
However , VEGF has also been shown to be neuroprotective across several experimental paradigms , and hence could potentially protect vulnerable cells from damage associated with seizures .
Although pancreatic cancer is the fifth common cause of cancer death in Western countries , current options in treatment enable a 5 - yr survival rate for all stages of less than 5 % .
Low transcript expression alone ( P = 0 . 003 ) or combined with methylation ( P = 0 . 019 ) was associated with poor disease - specific survival ( n = 205 ) .
Complexes containing VEGF165 , NRP1 , and KDR were also formed in an intercellular fashion by co - culture of EC expressing KDR only , with cells expressing NRP1 only , for example , breast carcinoma cells .
We also show that VEGFR1 + cells express VLA - 4 ( also known as integrin alpha4beta1 ) , and that tumour - specific growth factors upregulate fibronectin - - a VLA - 4 ligand - - in resident fibroblasts , providing a permissive niche for incoming tumour cells .
Therefore , it is possible that loss of final sigma expression contributes to malignant transformation by impairing the G ( 2 ) cell cycle checkpoint function , thus allowing an accumulation of genetic defects .
To study tumor related angiogenesis a vascular window model was used to monitor tumor vascularity .
Injection of AdCA5 into mouse eyes induced neovascularization in multiple capillary beds , including those not responsive to VEGF alone .
The tumors of A431 supplemented with F - 2 cells were profoundly vascularized throughout by the tubular structures formed by F - 2 cells , the lumen of which contained the host rat blood cells .
Because there is little information on the expression of topo I in colorectal tumors , this study evaluated and characterized topo I protein expression in primary colorectal cancer and lymph node metastases and studied the association between topo I protein expression and clinicopathologic data , p53 status , and proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( PCNA ) status .
The aim of this study was to compare the incidence of BRCA1 promoter region methylation in tumours in which loss of BRCA1 has been shown to play a role in pathogenesis ( breast and ovarian carcinomas ) with the incidence in tumours in which BRCA1 is unlikely to play a role in pathogenesis .
In vitro assays have indicated that c - myc may be a target gene of c - Myb ; however , regulation of the resident chromosomal gene has not yet been demonstrated .
Aglycon of rhizochalin from the Rhizochalina incrustata induces apoptosis via activation of AMP - activated protein kinase in HT - 29 colon cancer cells .
With the appropriate agent , targeting endosialin may interfere with blood vessel growth during tumor development .
Tumor Angiogenesis : Initiation and Targeting - Therapeutic Targeting of an FGF - Binding Protein , an Angiogenic Switch Molecule , and Indicator of Early Stages of Gastrointestinal Adenocarcinomas - .
The ability to positively and negatively regulate many of these pathways , combined with feedback signalling from these pathways to p53 , demonstrates the reciprocal and flexible nature of the regulation , facilitating a diverse range of responses to metabolic stress .
In addition to its role in embryonic development , the Hedgehog pathway has been shown to be an active participant in cancer development , progression , and metastasis .
Clinically , elderly patients are more vulnerable to acute myocardial infarction ( AMI ) .
In a multivariate analysis , N - stage and vascular grade were not found to be independent prognostic factors , since they were strongly related to each other .
The heightened sensitivity of VHL - deficient cells was not attributed to dissimilar energy requirements or to differences in glucose uptake , but more likely reflects a lesser ability of VHL - deficient cells to handle abnormally processed proteins arising from impaired glycosylation .
Use of uteroglobin for the engineering of polyvalent , polyspecific fusion proteins .
All slides were screened for the presence of LVI .
CONCLUSION : Not only tumor cells but also TAMs secrete the VEGF - C in OSCC , and TAMs may play a major role in peritumoral lymphatic neoangiogenesis and lymphatic metastasis .
IGF - 1 mRNA ( n = 10 / group ) and protein levels ( n = 6 / group ) were higher ( P less than 0 . 05 for all groups ) at 3 , 7 , and 14 days compared with controls .
Using univariate analysis , the S - 100beta level and metastatic profile were found to be statistically significant prognostic factors for survival .
Then , we demonstrated a mitochondrial membrane potential disruption followed by cytochrome c release that indicates the involvement of mitochondria in this apoptotic signaling pathway .
NF - kappaB / Rel transcriptional pathway : implications in pancreatic cancer .
Recruited pericytes were desmin and NG2 positive and predominately alpha - smooth muscle actin negative , indicative of a more mature pericyte phenotype .
Comet assay revealed a late onset of DNA breaks in the presence of 2 - DG following irradiation only in spheroids , which corroborated well with the late onset of oxidative stress .
CD56 + putative natural killer cell lymphomas : production of cytolytic effectors and related proteins mediating tumor cell apoptosis ?
Development of obesity is associated with extensive modifications in adipose tissue involving adipogenesis , angiogenesis and extracellular matrix proteolysis .
The activity of mitochondrial hexokinase was not inhibited by 150 microM 3 - BrPA , but this concentration caused more than 70 % inhibition of GAPDH ( glyceraldehyde - 3 - phosphate dehydrogenase ) and 3 - phosphoglycerate kinase activities .
Interestingly , neovascularization of the implants irradiated with 10 fractions ( 3000 cGy ) was not significantly decreased compared with irradiation with three fractions ( 900 cGy ) .
A p53 mutant , p53R172P , which is deficient for apoptosis but retains a partial cell cycle arrest function , delays tumor onset in mice .
In cultured cells , this molecule is physically associated with focal adhesions , which are well - defined regions of intimate cell - to - substratum adhesion .
Up - regulation of MMP activity , favoring proteolytic degradation of the basement membrane and extracellular matrix , has been linked to tumor growth and metastasis , as well as tumor - associated angiogenesis , whereas inhibition of MMP activity appears to restrict these processes .
Expression of G45 or activated PI3K subunit in DeltaG45 cells reversed these abnormalities .
Lymph node metastasis is one of the most important prognostic factors in various types of cancers , including endometrial cancer .
Western blot was performed to detect the effect of curcumin on the expression of uPA .
In vivo , LPA stimulates tumor metastasis in an orthotopic ovarian tumor model , which can be inhibited by a PI3K inhibitor , LY294002 .
The studies reported here were designed to help elucidate PAI - 1 ' s contribution to the invasive and migratory phenotype .
NO is synthesized through three isoforms of NO synthase ( NOS ) .
For investigation of cell suspensions , four pleural fluids were incubated with anticalretinin antiserum .
Conversely , tumor cell expression of NCAM in a fibrosarcoma model ( T241 ) improved pericyte recruitment and increased perivascular deposition of ECM molecules .
Calculations of the sources of energy for adenosine triphosphate synthesis indicated that on the average about one - third of the respiratory adenosine triphosphate is generated by electron flow originating from cytosolic NADH via the malate - aspartate shuttle .
We detected PTTG overexpression in 66 % ( 111 of 169 ) of primary esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( ESCC ) tumor tissues by in situ hybridization .
Active SHP - 2 then dephosphorylates VEGFR - 2 at Y951 , Y996 and Y1059 , but not Y1175 .
To characterize the effects of CK1delta on SV40 - induced mammary carcinogenesis , we generated transgenic mice expressing mutant CK1delta under the control of the whey acidic protein ( WAP ) gene promoter , and crossed them with SV40 transgenic WAP - T - antigen ( WAP - T ) mice .
This is primarily based on limited in vitro studies on tumor cells derived from transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder that revealed a dose - and time - dependent inhibition of cell growth by ciprofloxacin at concentrations that are easily attainable in the urine of patients .
In the current investigation , we show that p - XSC , but not an equivalent dose of SM , alters molecular targets and induces apoptosis in androgen - responsive LNCaP and androgen - independent LNCaP C4 - 2 human prostate cancer cells .
The role of each prognostic variable and their independent effect were studied using the Cox model .
Matrix metalloproteinase activity and immunohistochemical profile of matrix metalloproteinase - 2 and - 9 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 during human dermal wound healing .
However , how the tumor suppressive functions of p53 become concerted with the extracellular cues arriving at the cell surface during tissue homeostasis , remains largely unknown .
PURPOSE : The goal of this research was to evaluate a potential therapeutic agent for breast cancer based on galectin - 3 that has been implicated in tumorigenicity and metastasis of breast cancer .
These results strongly suggest that Dss1 is a TPA - inducible gene that may play an important role in the early stages of skin carcinogenesis .
RESULTS : The average fibrinogen levels in patients with pancreatic carcinoma , ( 476 . 21 + / - 142 . 05 ) mg / dl , were significantly higher than in patients with cholangiolithiasis , ( 403 . 28 + / - 126 . 41 ) mg / dl ( P < 0 . 05 ) .
Regulation of transforming growth factor - beta signaling and vascular diseases .
The metabolism of [ 1 , 2 - ( 13 ) C ( 2 ) ] - glucose by HUVEC allows us to trace many of the main glucose metabolic pathways , including glycogen synthesis , the pentose cycle and the glycolytic pathways .
HKa and D5 inhibit bovine pulmonary artery endothelial cell ( BPAE ) or human umbilical vein endothelial cell chemotaxis in the modified - Boyden chamber in response toVEGF or S1P .
However , fetal utilization of oxygen and glucose , on a weight basis , remain constant compared with control pregnancies .
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : In the present study , we investigated the effects of 2ME2 alone and in combination with paclitaxel , an active agent in recurrent or advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma .
Promotion of tumorigenesis by heterozygous disruption of the beclin 1 autophagy gene .
Desensitization could be induced in NIH - 3T3 cells by culturing under conditions where the cells were all in the exponential growth phase , or by a 12 h exposure to a C - kinase - activating phorbol ester .
RESULTS : P14 and P18 blocked endothelial cell chemotaxis ; P18 and P23 induced apoptosis .
Whether sex steroids affect IL - 8 secretion of normal breast tissue or breast cancer is not known .
Transforming growth factor beta 1 promotes spontaneous transformation of cultured rat liver epithelial cells .
PTTG - induced galectin - 1 transactivation and expression were mediated by c - Myc , and both inductions were suppressed by c - Myc RNAi cotranfection .
Antivascular actions of microtubule - binding drugs .
Thus TF , in addition to factors downstream of the coagulation cascade and the protease - activated receptor 2 activation system , would be a multifactorial regulator of atherogenesis .
Sunitinib markedly induced apoptosis of PC12 cells in a dose - dependent and time - dependent manner .
The level of apoptosis correlated directly with the expression level of the receptor , indicating that p75 may activate the cell death program directly .
CONCLUSION : These data delineate an ERK - and Sp1 - dependent mechanism of M - CSF induced VEGF production and demonstrate for the first time the ability of M - CSF to induce angiogenesis via VEGF in vivo .
The end result in individuals surviving burn shock is immunosuppression , with increased susceptibility to potentially fatal systemic burn wound or pulmonary sepsis .
Various studies using the mouse , quail / chick , and frog have uncovered a number of signals that guide these complex processes but many gaps still exist in our understanding of the mechanisms by which the embryonic vasculature is built .
Genes most significantly represented in this program are those with roles in cell growth and proliferation > protein synthesis > gene expression > cell death > cell cycle .
rho genes have been found in both lower and higher eucaryotes .
As a consequence , these tumors generate more lactate , which is effluxed from cells by monocarboxylate transporters ( MCTs ) .
RESULTS : ITCs were observed in peripheral blood and bone marrow even in early stages of gastric cancer .
Tissue factor ( TF ) is an essential initiator of blood coagulation that is expressed in various stages of atherosclerotic lesions in humans and other animals .
Expression of PTEN mRNA and protein in normal gastric mucosa and gastric cancer was evaluated by RT - PCR and SABC immunohistochemistry , respectively .
In this study , 14 of 18 lung cancer cell lines ( 78 % ) expressed CD40 on their surface .
In fact , p75 ( NTR ) depresses the VEGF - A / Akt / eNOS / NO pathway and additionally reduces the mRNA levels of ITGB1 [ beta ( 1 ) integrin ] , BIRC5 ( survivin ) , PTTG1 ( securin ) and VEZF1 .
Autocrine angiogenic vascular prosthesis with bone marrow transplantation .
Effect of antitumor agents on cytotoxicity induction by sodium fluoride .
Our results reveal an aspect of the precise molecular mechanisms of some breast cancers , in which full invasiveness is not acquired just by intracellular alterations of cancer cells , but extracellular factors from microenvironments may also be necessary .
Here we describe a 185 - kDa tandem duplication mutant ( TDM ) that is expressed in KE and A - 1235 glioma cells , along with certain functional characteristics of the mutants .
Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase - 1 staining was relatively sparse but was significantly increased until 8 weeks after surgery .
p53 - deficient cancers are often unstable , aggressive , and resistant to therapy .
Addition of c - erbB2 to a multivariate Cox model that contained menopausal status , tumor size , nuclear grade , and treatment as covariates did not affect the significance of the model for DSF or OAS , whereas addition of the first - order interaction between c - erbB2 and tamoxifen was statistically significant both for DFS and OAS .
For the purpose of investigating the relationship between the metastatic potential of the tumor as well as the expression of nm23 - H1 mRNA , and for determing the location of the positive sites in the cells , tumor metastasis suppressor gene nm23 - H1 in human hepatocellular carcinoma ( and the nonneoplastic area surrounding the tumor ) was detected by in situ hybridization using digoxiginin - labeled nm23 - H1 antisense complementary RNA probe .
Endothelial cell migration was increased by Rab5a depletion but decreased by Rab7a depletion .
In contrast , multicellular spheroids mimic heterogeneous cellular behavior and the consequent functional characteristics of in vivo solid tumors , and serve as important in vitro model to investigate tumor biology and responses to potential therapeutic agents .
Our findings suggest with a reduction of steroid hormones following ovariectomy , alternatively activated macrophage markers ( Fizz1 and Ym1 ) were reduced , with this effect being reversed with the administration of estrogen or progesterone ; suggesting that with the reduction of steroid hormones macrophages are activated in a classical manner , promoting inflammation , whereas estrogen or progesterone are contributing toward macrophage activation in an alternative manner , driving wound repair , angiogenesis , and remodeling .
However , as yet , there is no genetic evidence for a role of autophagy genes in tumor suppression .
Here we studied clusterin expression in PNT1a cells subjected to serum - starvation with the aim of defining clusterin early molecular changes following apoptosis induction .
Large lesions with relatively good visual acuity ( 20 / 50 or better ) may be at particular risk for marked vision loss following verteporfin administration .
A partial response ( PR ) was obtained after the first course with regression of multiple pulmonary metastases .
The importance of NO in the vasculature is demonstrated by several experimental conditions , such as vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) - induced angiogenesis .
The effects of exogenous DCC and netrin - 1 expression were observed together with the respective expression vector transfection .
It could be demonstrated that RAGE plays a pivotal role in structural damage ( e . g . inflammation , neoangiogenesis and fibrosis ) of the peritoneal membrane .
Metabolic regulation by p53 .
An important role of proprotein convertases in tumorigenic processes has been suggested by various studies .
In the immunohistochemical analysis of EGFR and TGF - alpha and Ki67 index , a significant increase was observed in Ca ex - PA , especially with adenocarcinoma , compared with PA and sialadenitis .
These alterations of Bcl - 2 family proteins were critical for apoptosis induced by the combination in cancer cells .
The stromal fibrous reaction associated to infiltrating carcinomas is responsible of focal increased density , and architectural distorsion , ultrasound acoustic shadowing ; abnormal neoangiogenesis can be detected by Doppler , CT or MR imaging .
We have used retroviral - mediated gene delivery to effect sustained autocrine expression of TIMP - 3 in murine neuroblastoma and melanoma tumor cells in order to further examine the ability of TIMPs to inhibit angiogenesis in vivo .
At 3 weeks , the endogenous blood supply of both the control and the experimental fat pads was isolated and ligated , and the composite fat / muscle flap was transferred to the chest wall .
Dietary CLA decreased serum levels of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and whole mammary gland levels of VEGF and its receptor Flk - 1 .
The tumor mass thus formed was an average 5 . 8 - fold as large as control A431 tumors that were grown without F - 2 cells .
This pathway has been implicated to play a role in the pathogenesis of cancer and in embryonic blood vessel development .
Curcumin inhibits metastatic progression of breast cancer cell through suppression of urokinase - type plasminogen activator by NF - kappa B signaling pathways .
SPARC ( secreted protein , acidic , and rich in cysteine ) is a matrix - associated glycoprotein that modulates the adhesion and proliferation of vascular cells .
Our data suggest that plasmin - nicked beta2GPI promotes angiogenesis by interacting with plasmin - generated AS4 . 5 in sites of increased fibrinolysis such as thrombus .
DNA of the non - tumorigenic cell hybrids transformed Rat - 1 cells to anchorage - independent proliferation as expected for the transforming human Ha - ras gene present in the donor DNA .
Loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 in gastric carcinoma .
We analyzed the relative abundance of ST3 and BM - 40 / SPARC transcripts by Northern blot , and their distribution by in situ hybridization , in normal mucosa , benign adenomas , and primary colorectal adenocarcinomas and their liver metastases .
RESULTS : Of the 13 treated patients , 10 ( 77 % ) had a radiologically demonstrated partial response and 3 ( 23 % ) had stable disease .
OBJECTIVE : The expansion of adipose tissue is linked to the development of its vasculature .
Relevant differentially expressed genes were validated by either quantitative real - time polymerase chain reaction or immunohistochemistry on tissue microarrays .
In vivo , LeTx decreased MAPK activity and blocked fibrosarcoma growth .
Single cell transplants showed that a common precursor contributes to both the hemopoietic and endothelial lineages , thus demonstrating the presence of an adult hemangioblast .
Ultraviolet B irradiation promotes tumorigenic and metastatic properties in primary cutaneous melanoma via induction of interleukin 8 .
The angiogenic potency of adipose tissue was not related to its localization ( with an angiogenic stimulation in 60 % of SAT samples and 61 % of VAT samples ) or to adipocyte size or inflammatory infiltrate assessed in adipose samples before the graft on CAM .
Hypermethylation of final sigma is functionally important , because treatment of final sigma - non - expressing breast cancer cell lines with the drug 5 - aza - 2 ' - deoxycytidine resulted in demethylation of the gene and synthesis of final sigma mRNA .
These studies have led to the hypothesis that increased consumption of glucose in metastatic lesions is not used for substantial energy production via Embden - Meyerhoff glycolysis , but rather for production of acid , which gives the cancer cells a competitive advantage for invasion .
The presence of activating TSH - R mutations has also been demonstrated in differentiated thyroid carcinomas .
Bevacizumab is a humanized immunoglobulin G1 monoclonal antibody to vascular endothelial growth factor that has been shown to have activity in malignant gliomas when combined with irinotecan .
We found that GSE could directly inhibit the kinase activity of purified VEGF receptor 2 , a novel activity of GSE that has not been characterized .
HGF were stimulated with lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) , vesicle ( Ve ) and outer membrane protein ( OMP ) from Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans and Porphyromonas gingivalis .
KISS1 hypermethylation was identified in bladder cancer , providing a potential mechanistic explanation ( epigenetic silencing ) for the observed loss of KISS1 in uroepithelial malignancies .
Use of iodine - 123 - alpha - methyl tyrosine ( 123I - IMT ) allows investigation of the amino acid transport rate in gliomas .
Although both hypomorphic heterozygotes developed intestinal polyps , tumor multiplicities were much lower than that in Apc ( Delta716 ) mice , heterozygotes of an Apc null allele .
The greatest potential for angiogenesis inhibitors may lie in their ability to combine safely with chemotherapy and radiotherapy .
Tumor volume and total hemoglobin in allograft mice treated with 50 mg / kg DATS were significantly smaller than that in the control group .
Commonality exists in the processes involved in vasculature development between tissues whether healthy or diseased .
Inhibitors of Hedgehog signaling have been the subject of intense research .
RESULTS : Blood vessels initiated growth and elongated from the fat tissue fragments over 15 days .
These results suggest that Cum - OOH - induced carcinogenesis is accompanied by increased AP - 1 activation and changes in antioxidant status .
More than 50 % of the tumor cells coexpressed vimentin and keratin .
Erbb2 ablation reduced the UV - induced activation of PI3K while inhibition of PI3K / Akt increased UV - induced S - phase arrest .
None of the inhibitors had any effect on the weight of the superovulated ovaries or on the synthesis of progesterone by cultured luteal cells .
This effect was observed whether the cells had been treated with all - trans - RA in serum - free medium or in medium supplemented with heat - inactivated or acid - treated fetal bovine serum .
Moreover , both the accelerated translation and the previously reported reactive oxygen species - mediated stabilization of HIF - 1alpha protein were essential to the activation of HIF - 1 .
Thalidomide at the concentrations of 0 . 01 microM and 10 microM inhibited VEGF secretion into supernatants , decreased the number of formed capillary tubes and increased cell adhesion to collagen .
Correspondingly , Ang - 2 manipulatory therapies have been shown to exert protumorigenic as well as antitumorigenic effects .
The basal phosphorylation of protein kinase C substrate of relative molecular mass ( Mr ) 80 , 000 ( 80K ) is significantly increased in all the ras - transformed cell lines .
The migration of vascular endothelial cells ( ECs ) plays an important role in vascular remodeling .
The ST3 and BM - 40 / SPARC transcripts were overexpressed in primary colorectal cancers and their liver metastases compared to non - neoplastic mucosa .
Furthermore , in comparison with native OPN , thrombin - cleaved OPN stimulated a greater rate of EC migration in vitro , which was additive to the increased migration associated with induction of alpha v beta 3 .
Vasostatin , the N - terminal domain of calreticulin , is a potent angiogenesis inhibitor .
Glucose uptake and lipogenesis were severely blocked by knocking - down of PFKFB2 using siRNA ( small interfering RNA ) or by inhibition of PFK - 2 activity with LY294002 treatment .
These activities provide an explanation for the angiogenic properties of EGF in vivo .
CONCLUSIONS : The data suggest that PI3K / Akt - NF - kappaB axis may promote PC bone metastasis in part by regulating transcription and activation of the BMP - 2 - Smad signaling cascade in osteotropic PC cells .
The foreign body reaction was similar in both groups .
The purpose of this study was to determine whether upregulation of PTEN gene by transfection wild - type PTEN gene to ovarian cancer cells can inhibit growth and migration and to explore the potential for PTEN gene therapy of ovarian cancers .
Our results suggest that formation of a ternary complex of VEGF165 , KDR , and NRP1 potentiates VEGF165 binding to KDR .
METHODS : The authors evaluated plasma endostatin ( PE ) levels using an enzyme linked immunoassay in 71 patients with acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) and 43 patients with myelodysplastic syndrome ( MDS ) , and correlated PE with various clinical parameters .
Cancer progression and p53 .
HIF - 2alpha was detected in hypoxic and in well - oxygenized neuroblastoma cells and tissue , presumably reflecting their embryonic features .
Ultimately , the primary site was established on clinical and radiographic grounds in 71 cases ( 95 % ) .
Additionally , the angiogenic and lymphangiogenic profiles of the tumors were characterized .
We have identified several mechanisms by which the angiogenic cytokine vascular permeability factor / vascular endothelial growth factor ( VPF / VEGF ) likely regulates endothelial cells ( EC ) migration .
These results show that matrix metalloproteinases are present at elevated levels during early wound healing , when angiogenesis occurs , and suggest that matrix metalloproteinase - 9 may play a significant role .
These results suggest that CYR61 and CTGF may play a role in the progression of gliomas ; their levels at diagnosis may have prognostic significance ; and these proteins might serve as valuable targets for therapeutic intervention .
We failed to find the statistical difference between IMVD and tumor T - stage in LSCC .
In concordance with its higher affinity for tumor Hsp90 , in vivo PU24FCl accumulates in tumors while being rapidly cleared from normal tissue .
These studies thus identify p600 as a shared target of the E7 proteins of multiple papillomaviruses .
Roles of cell adhesion molecules in tumor angiogenesis induced by cotransplantation of cancer and endothelial cells to nude rats .
Furthermore , the possibility of selective targeting of PTEN mutant tumor cells by specific pharmacologic inhibitors of members of the Pten / PI3K / Akt pathway opens up new perspectives for a targeted molecular therapy of malignant gliomas .
These results show that STX243 is a potent in vivo drug and could be clinically effective at treating a number of oncological conditions .
Murine leukemia L1210 cells rendered deficient in glutathione peroxidase ( GPX ) and phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase ( PHGPX ) by Se deprivation ( L . Se ( - ) cells ) were found to be more sensitive to tert - butyl hydroperoxide ( t - BuOOH ) cytotoxicity than Se - replete controls ( L . Se ( + ) cells ) .
Two separate regions of Evi - 1 are responsible for this repression , one of which is the first zinc - finger domain .
Moreover , we demonstrate that this inflammation - driven netrin - 1 up - regulation is causal for colorectal cancer development as interference with netrin - 1 autocrine loop in a mouse model for ulcerative colitis - associated colorectal cancer , while showing no effect on inflammation , inhibits colorectal cancer progression .
RESULTS : The MMP / TIMP profile defined by hierarchical cluster analysis of the immunohistochemical score identifies a distinct group of colorectal cancers with poor prognosis ( log - rank test , 12 . 22 , P = 0 . 0005 ) .
Desipramine inhibits the growth of a mouse skin squamous cell carcinoma cell line and affects glucocorticoid receptor - mediated transcription .
In the meantime preventive use of bisphosphonates in patients without any bone metastases should not be used outside the scope of a clinical trial .
In addition , the expression of Bcl - 2 , uPA , MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 was decreased , while Bax level was elevated .
Based on our results , COUP - TFII may represent a biomarker for good prognosis in colorectal cancer .
Similar results were also obtained with respect to 5 - FU .
These findings indicate that TS and CD82 may be of great value in assessing lymph node metastasis of OSCC , and could be taken as new targets for therapy of metastatic OSCC .
Our results suggest that blood flow limits glucose supply to tumor tissue at much higher flow rates than in normal brain which , in turn , is associated with a decrease in tumor glucose utilization .
F - 2 cells cultured on Matrigel showed evident tube formation , and coculture of F - 2 cells with A431 cells led to the formation of A431 cell nests constantly surrounded by tube - like networks consisting of F - 2 cells .
In this study , the expression of C / EBPbeta was analysed in a series of 90 gastric carcinomas ( GCs ) .
A nutritionally induced obesity model in transgenic mice has been used extensively to study the role of the fibrinolytic and MMP systems in the development of obesity .
In murine models , the latter produces a hyperproliferative response to G - CSF , confers resistance to apoptosis , and enhances cell survival .
Hematogenous metastasis in gastric cancer requires isolated tumor cells and expression of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 1 .
Wnt signaling plays a critical role in regulating stem / progenitor cells in the mammary gland as well as other tissue compartments .
To examine the mechanisms by which insulin regulates VEGF expression , human retinal pigment epithelial ( RPE ) cells were exposed to insulin , and VEGF mRNA levels were quantified with RNase protection assays ( RPAs ) .
M - CSF signals through the MAPK / ERK pathway via Sp1 to induce VEGF production and induces angiogenesis in vivo .
These observations support the importance of ER in Ras - mediated cell transformation .
These results indicate that ING4 has an important role in brain tumour pathogenesis .
Following an overnight fast , blood samples were obtained from 14 dogs with previously untreated lymphoma before and 5 , 15 , 30 , 45 , 60 , and 90 minutes following an intravenous challenge with 500 mg / kg dextrose .
However , biochemical screening cannot reliably discriminate the transition from C - cell hyperplasia to invasive microcarcinoma .
The procedure is based on the use of a central skeleton of uteroglobin , a small and very soluble covalently linked homodimeric protein that is very resistant to proteolytic enzymes and to pH variations .
Moreover , expression of a dominant negative AP - 2 protein , AP - 2delta ( deleted residues 31 - 117 ) , not only repressed the ErbB - 3 promoter activity but also suppressed endogenous ErbB - 3 transcription in the ErbB - 3 overexpressing cell line MRC - 5VA .
However , glycolysis and GLUT - 1 can also be induced independent of HIF - 1alpha by other factors , such as c - Myc and phosphorylated Akt ( pAkt ) .
The Wilms tumor suppressor gene WT1 induces G1 arrest and apoptosis in myeloblastic leukemia M1 cells .
For detecting the mechanism of apoptosis induced by docetaxel - ATRA combination , OligoGeArray which consists of 112 apoptosis related genes was used .
Recent evidence has suggested a role for inflammation in seizure disorders .
hADA3 binds selectively to the high - risk HPV E6 proteins and only to immortalization - competent E6 mutants .
No clinicopathologic factors were significantly correlated with p53 or VEGF expression .
Our results suggest that this small peptide functions as an angiogenic inhibitor by inhibiting VEGF function through a non - VEGF binding mechanism .
Homeostasis of the extracellular matrix is a delicate balance between degradation and remodeling , the balance being maintained by the interaction of activated matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) and specific tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases ( TIMPs ) .
Heparin was surface immobilized via covalent conjugation .
To evaluate the biological significance of M - CSF induced VEGF production , we used an in vivo angiogenesis model to illustrate the ability of M - CSF to recruit mononuclear phagocytes , increase VEGF levels , and enhance angiogenesis .
To assess the lymphoid tumorigenic potential of bcl - 2 , mice of five independent strains expressing a bcl - 2 transgene in B and / or T cells were monitored for disease up to 12 months of age .
Paclitaxel , a potent anti - neoplastic agent , has been found to be effective against several tumours , including cervical cancer .
There is accumulating evidence of a role for IGF - 1 in multiple vascular pathologies , including atherosclerosis , hypertension , restenosis , angiogenesis , and diabetic vascular disease .
The TB animals had significantly lower plasma glucose and higher blood lactic acid levels compared with NTB animals .
These results strongly suggested that the BI - 1 gene might play a crucial role in neoplastic genesis and development .
Taken together , the lines of evidence demonstrate that betulin triggers apoptosis of human cancer cells through the intrinsic apoptotic pathway .
These results indicate that HIF - 1 functions as a master regulator of angiogenesis by controlling the expression of multiple angiogenic growth factors and that adenovirus - mediated expression of a constitutively active form of HIF - 1alpha is sufficient to induce angiogenesis in nonischemic tissue of an adult animal .
At this writing , heparin appears to be the principal mast cell factor responsible for this effect on capillary endothelial cells .
CONCLUSIONS : PE is a useful prognostic predictor of CR and OS for AML / MDS patients .
beta - catenin signaling controls metastasis in Braf - activated Pten - deficient melanomas .
A considerable number of mutant p53 proteins probably have an oncogenic activity per se and therefore actively participate in cell transformation .
TIMP3 may affect two independent downstream targets , vascular endothelial growth factor receptor and p38 MAPK .
METHODS : Thirty - eight Wistar albino rats underwent laparotomy to cause intra - abdominal adhesions by mechanical abrasion of the cecum and ethanol application .
Coexpression of the progesterone receptor with mutant K - Ras led to suppression of tumorigenicity and inhibition of the activation of ER .
The endothelial cell line expressing vGPCR was rendered sensitive to treatment with the nucleoside analogue ganciclovir by using a bicistronic construct coexpressing the herpes simplex virus 1 thymidine kinase .
Although the number of mutations in the APC and beta - catenin genes in our CRC cases was very low , the study confirms the role of epigenetic gene silencing of the pivotal molecular gladiator , APC , of the Wnt pathway in the development of CRC in the Kashmiri population .
RESULT : The average IMVD was ( 21 . 50 + / - 8 . 87 ) , and median of AI was 1 . 15 % .
BALB - / MK - 2 mouse epidermal keratinocytes required epidermal growth factor for proliferation and terminally differentiated in response to high Ca2 + concentration .
It is suggested that inhibition of tumour angiogenesis by vitamin E may be an additional mechanism for the anticancer action of vitamin E .
During the further course no deterioration of the condition was observed .
We have suggested that constitutive activation of this kinase is one mechanism by which oncogenes transform cells .
Gangliocytic paraganglioma ( GPG ) with local lymph node metastasis was found in the pancreas of a 74 - yr - old female who presented with diarrhea , steatorrhea , vomiting , nausea , and abdominal pain .
IL - 17F deficiency inhibits small intestinal tumorigenesis in ApcMin / + mice .
Traditional coronary revascularization therapies such as coronary angioplasty or bypass graft surgery , act by restoring blood flow through the preexisting coronary vessels .
Administration of thalidomide at the concentration of 0 . 01 microM increased cell migration , while at 10 microM , it decreased cell migration .
Immunohistochemical staining for thyroid transcription factor - 1 : a helpful aid in discerning primary site of tumor origin in patients with brain metastases .
The roles of miscrovascularity density ( MVD ) and VEGF expression in the progression of oral squamous cell carcinoma ( OSCC ) have been controversial .
Patterns of X - chromosome inactivation , mutations in the K - ras gene , mutations or allelic loss of the p53 gene , or human papillomavirus detection were identical in both endometrial and ovarian lesions in three of the cases suggesting that those three cases represented single primary tumors with metastases .
Presence of subfoveal CNV at 6 and 12 months of follow - up was determined by review of fluorescein angiograms .
Finally , serum - free conditioned medium from MDA - 231 cells inhibited the NK cell activity of human blood lymphocytes .
By ruling out cell fusion , we clearly demonstrate the existence of an adult hemangioblast , but the differentiation of marrow stem cells toward the endothelial lineage is an extremely rare event .
After SCC transformation , the absence of G45 domain in DeltaG45 cells was associated with deficient extracellular signal - regulated kinase and phosphotidylinositol 3 - kinase ( PI3K ) pathway activation , impaired invasion , deficient metalloproteinase activity , and absent tumorgenicity in vivo .
Taken together , our data indicate that in VHL disease , therapy directed at inhibition of constitutively expressed VEGF induction of angiogenesis by VHL tumors may constitute an effective medical treatment .
The aim of the present study was to investigate the properties of VEGF expression in human gingival fibroblasts ( HGF ) culture .
Compared with their corresponding single mutant littermates , the p18 ( - / - ) ; Men1 ( + / - ) mice develop tumors at an accelerated rate and with an increased incidence in the pituitary , thyroid , parathyroid , and pancreas .
BACKGROUND : Although many children with CHD develop pulmonary vascular disease , it is unclear why this complication is reversible after complete repair in some cases but irreversible in others .
We show that transgenic expression of CDKs in the embryonic oral ectoderm is specifically retained in undifferentiated cells from the pars intermedia of the adenohypophysis .
To determine the mechanisms whereby hematopoietic growth factors ( HGFs ) modulate apoptosis in human myeloid leukemic cells , we evaluated the roles of protein and mRNA synthesis for altering apoptosis in growth factor - stimulated vs . quiescent leukemic TF1 cells .
It is concluded that there is no major difference between the PET investigation of glucose metabolism and the less expensive SPET measurement of amino acid uptake in terms of their accuracy in evaluating the malignancy grade of primary brain tumours .
Oxygen consumption of HepG2 cells supported by either pyruvate / malate or succinate was inhibited when cells were pre - incubated with 3 - BrPA in glucose - free medium .
Our current data suggest that gamma rays worked as an initiator of carcinogenesis in normal human cells , giving rise to chromosome aberrations and immortality , and the Ha - ras oncogene played a role in the progression of the immortally transformed cell population to a neoplastic one showing enhanced colony formation in soft agar and tumorigenicity in nude mice .
Interleukin - 6 has been shown to be associated with tumor progression including inhibition of cancer cells apoptosis and stimulation of angiogenesis .
When the metastatic lung carcinomas were subtyped , TTF - 1 staining was noted in 11 of 11 ( 100 % ) adenocarcinomas , in 6 of 7 ( 86 % ) small - cell carcinomas , in 15 of 19 ( 79 % ) large - cell carcinomas , and in none of 3 ( 0 % ) squamous cell carcinomas .
Lesion composition also appears to influence visual outcome with verteporfin use .
In addition , these clones also exhibit aggressive tumorigenic phenotypes in vivo with short latency in tumor formation in both immunodeficient and syngeneic mice .
We recently observed that FOXO3a gene inactivation occurs frequently in carcinogen - induced lung adenocarcinoma ( LAC ) .
An alternative and rather obvious strategy to treat ischemia is to activate endogenous angiogenic or arteriogenic pathways to stimulate revascularization of the tissue .
Surgery is the primary treatment for stage I disease .
The data suggest that various metastasis profiles exist .
Both tumor - bearing ( TB ) and nontumor bearing ( NTB ) animals were gaining weight prior to study and the tumors were relatively small .
The results revealed that the metastatic tumors in mouse lung were markedly decreased in a dose - dependent manner and acute lung injury induced by B16F10 melanoma metastasis was diminished by systemic rk - 2 treatment .
However , little in vivo experimental data are available about the effects of NF - kappaB inhibition on OSCC metastasis .
Simultaneous and continuous exposure of HT - 29 and HMVEC - d cells to low concentrations SN - 38 + L - OHP + 5 - FU for 144 h showed a strong antagonism and an unfavorable dose - reduction index .
We have examined the tyrosine phosphorylation of a major cellular protein of Mr 36 , 000 in cells infected with a panel of partially transforming mutants of Rous sarcoma virus .
Conditioned media prepared from colon cells treated with an adenosine analog increased human umbilical vein endothelial cell migration .
Application of clonal analysis .
Apoptosis , characterized by nuclear condensation , membrane blebbing , cell shrinkage and a significant induction of caspase - 3 - like protease activity at 8 h in a time - course study were observed .
We found that induction of one splicing variant of WT1 [ WT1 - 17AA ( + ) - KTS ( - ) ] in M1 cells induces cell cycle arrest and apoptotic cell death .
These results are consistent with our initial hypothesis and lead us to propose that MKK inhibition by LeTx is a broadly effective strategy for targeting neovascularization in fibrosarcomas and other similar proliferative lesions .
This Review will discuss the rationale for using antiangiogenic compounds and will focus on large molecules , such as antibodies , that target the VEGF system .
This effect was mediated , at least partly , through caspase activation .
The level of VEGF expression correlated inversely with the degree of splenomegaly ( Pearson , r = - 0 . 400 , p = 0 . 011 ) .
This suggests that FOXO3a may play a role in LAC suppression by eliciting a protective response to carcinogenic stress .
Onconase similarly inhibited proliferation in all three cell lines ( IC ( 50 ) = 0 . 3 - 1 . 0 microM ) while ( - 4 ) rhEDN was more effective on immortalized HUVEC cell lines ( IC ( 50 ) = 0 . 02 - 0 . 06 microM ) than on primary HUVECs ( IC ( 50 ) > 0 . 1 microM ) .
Pak1 associates with the complex of DLC1 and BimL , a proapoptotic BH3 - only protein , and phosphorylates both proteins .
New functions of epidermal growth factor : stimulation of capillary endothelial cell migration and matrix dependent proliferation .
In in vivo study , liposomal honokiol significantly inhibited the tumor - associated lymphangiogenesis and metastasis in Lewis lung carcinoma model .
Surprisingly , when injected into chicken embryos in the presence of helper virus , both viruses induced an erythroleukemia in about half of the animals .
Control RM - 9 cells and RM - 9 cells stably transfected with IL - 12 gene ( RM - 9 - IL12 ) were inoculated subcutaneously in 4 - to 6 - week - old male C57BL / J6 mice .
The N - myc proto - oncogene encodes a transcription factor which regulates cell growth and differentiation .
Continuous ( 24h ) treatment with 5 microM doxorubicin resulted in cell cycle arrest in G0 / G1 phase that was neither accompanied by phosphorylation and activation of p53 nor enhanced expression of p21 .
Little , however , is known about the inhibitory mechanisms .
Genetic alterations at final sigma such as loss of heterozygosity were rare ( 1 / 20 informative cases ) , and no mutations were detected ( 0 / 34 ) .
Absent staining of beta - catenin was associated with lymph node metastasis .
The system also permits precise aiming and delivery of 810 - nm wavelength photocoagulation laser energy to target FVs on a real - time ICG angiogram image of the choroidal vasculature .
The remaining SVLT mutants presented different degrees of ability to inhibit differentiation ( as shown by the expression of tissue - specific markers in transformants ) .
Trib1 and Evi1 were up - regulated due to retroviral insertions , and coexpression of these genes significantly accelerated the onset of Hoxa9 / Meis1 - induced AML , suggesting that Trib1 and Evi1 are the key collaborators .
Reduced expression of E - cadherin , an intercellular adhesion molecule of epithelial cells , has been reported to be associated with aggressive clinicopathological phenotypes in various cancers .
A 24 - h exposure of cells to all - trans - RA was sufficient to cause a 30 % decrease in the collagenolytic activity , and this inhibitory effect was reversible .
The formation of functional units with these various proteins allows the uPAR to mediate the focused proteolysis required for cell migration and invasion and to contribute both directly and indirectly to cell adhesive processes in a non - proteolytic fashion .
This identifies a novel function of Evi - 1 as a member of corepressor complexes and suggests that aberrant recruitment of corepressors is one of the mechanisms involved in Evi - 1 - induced leukemogenesis .
Here , we demonstrate in mice pleiotropic involvement of PTHrP in key steps of breast cancer - it influences the initiation and progression of primary tumors and metastases .
Pathological analysis indicated that generated tumors corresponded to well - differentiated fibrosarcomas with distinct and intersecting bundles and spindle cells .
As predicted , these MEFs upregulated Hif - 1alpha and HIF target genes directly as a result of FH deficiency .
Cell invasion and apoptosis assays were also performed .
Nevertheless , for both viruses the leukemic blasts retained full factor dependence for growth .
In both the prevention and intervention experiments , a significant diminution of tumor size and weight was observed in the drug - treated animals .
The difference in diagnostic performance was not significant on receiver operating characteristic analysis ( P > 0 . 4 ) .
There was no effect on overall protein biosynthesis or ER stress .
Younger patients and eyes with higher refractive error appear more likely to benefit from PDT with verteporfin .
Co - treatment with inhibitors of autophagy results in marked enhancement of cell death .
Survivin is a novel member of the inhibitor of apoptosis protein ( IAP ) family .
Endothelial cell expression of c - src was constitutively elevated after stable infection with a retroviral vector containing the c - src coding sequence .
This is the first description of GPG in this location and the first endocrinologically active GPG .
Furthermore , specific downregulation of either caspase - 9 , Bax , or Bak by siRNA effectively reduced PARP cleavage and caspase - 3 activation .
RESULTS : DCE - MRI revealed greater enhancement in the peripheral area than in the central area in all the examined animal models .
Autocrine angiotensin system regulation of bovine aortic endothelial cell migration and plasminogen activator involves modulation of proto - oncogene pp60c - src expression .
In the orthotopic xenograft model , rAAV2 / 5 - VAS suppressed metastasis of A549 tumors to mediastinal lymph nodes and contralateral lung .
Hepatocyte growth factor ( HGF ) / c - Met signaling is thought to be a key pathway in both melanocyte development and melanoma metastasis .
However , recent observations suggest more caution in accepting such a hypothesis .
Activating mutations of the TSH - R gene have been detected in a group of differentiated carcinomas with high basal adenylyl cyclase activity , and in a few cases of hyperfunctioning thyroid carcinoma .
CONCLUSION : The data suggest that both h - MVD and VEGF immunoreactivity may be useful predictors for the progression of a subset of OSCC associated mostly with betel use .
Using multivariate analysis the S - 100beta level was the most powerful prognostic indicator , while the metastatic profile was found to be significant after exclusion of S - 100beta .
Although there was no significant difference of the H . pylori positivity between the two groups , the rate for both groups was higher than reported in previous studies .
In this study , the aim was to investigate the effect of phenolic acids found abundantly in vegetables , i . e . gallic acid ( GA ) , caffeic acid ( CA ) and protocatechuic acid ( PCA ) , on the inhibition of gastric adenocarcinoma ( AGS ) cell metastasis .
The average IMVD in positive and negative cervical lymphatic metastasis was ( 26 . 33 + / - 9 . 70 ) and ( 17 . 68 + / - 6 . 06 ) respectively , and the IMVD with positive lymphatic metastasis tumors was statistical significantly higher than those with negative cervical lymphatic metastasis tumors ( P less than 0 . 01 ) .
Transcutaneous measurements of tissue pO2 showed elevation from 20 + / - 10 mm Hg during air breathing to 643 + / - 242 mm Hg while breathing pure oxygen at 2 . 5 ATA .
Experimental drug therapy of peritumoral brain edema .
Ras - association domain family 1C protein promotes breast cancer cell migration and attenuates apoptosis .
Thymidylate synthase ( TS ) and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase ( DPD ) are 5 - fluorouracil ( 5 - FU ) metabolizing enzymes and are involved in the sensitivity of carcinoma patients to 5 - FU .
Since the function of 9E3 / CEF4 is unknown , we examined the effect of the protein on mitogenicity and chemotaxis , as well as its expression , in fibroblasts and peripheral blood cells .
Combined mutations of p27 ( - / - ) and Men1 ( + / - ) , in contrast , did not exhibit noticeable synergistic stimulation of Rb kinase activity , cell proliferation , and tumor growth .
Histological examination of ovarian corrosion casts indicated that NS - 398 inhibited the establishment of luteal capillary vessels following the injection of hCG .
Hence , regulatory mechanisms of IL - 8 need to be investigated in whole tissue .
Among the most potent of the angiogenic factors is vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) .
In comparison , by day 24 , the majority of groups also treated with prednisolone displayed significantly less corneal clouding and neovascularization .
We have investigated the mechanism by which the simian virus 40 large T antigen ( SVLT ) interferes with the differentiation of C2 myoblasts .
Together these results indicate that expression of junB above a threshold level is essential for v - fos - induced transformation of Rat - 1 fibroblasts .
Using a murine incisional wound healing model this study was carried out to investigate the roles of estrogen and progesterone on macrophage activation during the wound healing response .
Here , we show that the N - acetyltransferase arrest - defect 1 protein ( ARD1 ) functions as a unique AR regulator in PCa cells .
The efficacy of the approach may be critically dependent on the intrinsic susceptibility to apoptosis of different tumors .
Immunotargeting using an anti - IGF - IR neutralizing antibody on human fetal lung explants demonstrated a significant blockade of IGF - IR signaling .
Target FVs are tracked by a joy - stick controlled laser aiming beam until an intravenously - injected high - concentration ICG dye bolus is observed to enter the target vessel , at which time the laser is fired .
Tumor promotion is due to induction of inflammation that results in enhanced pneumocyte proliferation and is abrogated by IKKbeta ablation in myeloid cells or inactivation of JNK1 .
Quercetin increased the efficiency of pumping in EAT cells both in the absence and presence of the detergent .
In the HT29 tumor model , treatment response to vandetanib ( 50 mg / kg / day , Monday - Friday for 2 weeks ) was greatest in xenografts derived from the highest VEGF - expressing cell clones .
Topo I protein expression was detected in 127 ( 51 % ) samples , including 24 . 4 % with > 50 % positive tumor cells .
Convergence of p53 and TGF - beta signaling networks .
TUNEL data are reported as percentage apoptotic cells .
S - 100beta is also an independent prognostic marker .
In order to appropriately move NF - kappaB inhibitors in the clinic , thorough approaches must be initiated to determine the molecular mechanisms that dictate the complexity of oncologic and therapeutic outcomes that are controlled by NF - kappaB .
Here , we demonstrate that Ang1 halts the ability of VEGF to induce the phosphorylation - dependent redistribution of the adhesion molecule VE - cadherin , thereby rescuing the endothelial barrier function .
Thus , our objective was to explore the expression of COUP - TFII in colorectal cancer as well as its association with clinicopathological features , and to evaluate the role of COUP - TFII as a prognostic indicator in colorectal cancer .
None of the polymorphisms were associated with risk of advanced stage or histologic subtype of cervical cancer .
Induction of the leukemogenic phenotype is generally associated with inappropriate expression of this transcriptional regulator .
The Wilms ' tumor 1 ( WT1 ) gene is a tumor suppressor gene that encodes a zinc - finger transcription factor .
We are increasingly aware that cellular metabolism plays a vital role in diseases such as cancer , and that p53 is an important regulator of metabolic pathways .
In particular , the activity of angiogenic factors is crucial for tumor progression .
It was correlated with the laboratory ( Hb , WBC and platelet counts , and the percentage of blasts ) and clinical parameters ( organomegaly , duration of CP , AP , and BC ) of disease progression .
Reconstitution of MCF - 7 cell extracts with procaspase - 3 corrects this defect , resulting in an efficient and complete processing of procaspase - 9 .
It is also expressed by many types of tumour cell and has been associated with metastasis and poor clinical outcome in a number of cancers .
T140 analogs as CXCR4 antagonists identified as anti - metastatic agents in the treatment of breast cancer .
Spironolactone affected both systemic ( down - regulation of CD25 + cells in spleen ) and local immune response ( up - regulation of IL - 10 in cornea ) .
In MatrigelTM invasion assays , all subclones , which secreted enzymatically active ATX , demonstrated greater spontaneous and ATX - stimulated invasion than appropriate controls .
MDA - MB - 231 cells alone or breast cancer samples did not express RANKL mRNA .
Endothelial cell migration and vascular endothelial growth factor expression are the result of loss of breast tissue polarity .
Following i . v . infusion with [ 13C ] alanine , [ 13C ] lactate and glutamate , evidence of oxidation via the TCA cycle , were observed in H4 tumors .
Since tumor cell - derived TSP - 1 has the potential to promote angiogenesis in the tumor microenvironment , it could be a potential target for breast cancer therapy .
Three patients ( 14 % ) regained 2 or more lines of visual acuity .
Given the dominant role of p21 in p53 cell cycle control , we crossed Trp53 ( 515C / 515C ) mice onto a p21 - null background to determine whether p21 was required for maintaining chromosomal stability and delaying tumor onset .
All the tumors produced grew progressively without showing regression and killed the mice .
Reverse transcription - polymerase chain reaction and Western blot assays were used to investigate expression of Bcl - 2 and Bax .
This is a randomized , open label , prospective study that examined the effect of preventive zoledronic acid treatment on the development of bone metastases in patients with recurrent solid tumors , without bone metastases at the time of randomization .
Non - specific PKC inhibitors staurosporine and bisindolylmaleimide II as well as inhibitors specific to conventional PKCs ( Go6976 ) and PKC - delta ( rottlerin ) attenuated NF - kappaB activation in BPDE treated cells to a varying degree indicating a possible link between PKC down - regulation and the attenuation of NF - kappaB activity by TSC phenolic fraction .
Furthermore , ARD1 interacted physically with and acetylated the AR protein in vivo and in vitro .
Here we report that infusion of Ang II significantly increases circulating levels of sFlt - 1 in pregnant mice , thereby demonstrating that Ang II is a regulator of sFlt - 1 secretion in vivo .
The mode of Ca2 + entry regulating cell shape is unknown .
FPR and the piperazine derivatives inhibited the activation of this enzyme .
For verifying apoptosis , both DNA Fragmentation by ELISA assay and caspase 3 / 7 activity measurement were used .
It suggests that altered PTEN gene contributes to tumorigenesis and progression of gastric carcinomas .
The present study was designed to investigate the effect of transplanted MSCs from rats of different ages on the improvement of heart function after AMI .
Intriguingly , two recent papers have shed new light into this unexplored field , indicating that p53 plays a key role in TGF - beta - induced growth arrest and , unexpectedly , in the developmental effects of TGF - beta in early embryos .
In contrast , caspase - 3 , Fas ligand , Fas / CD95 , and PAI showed an inverse correlation to lymph node involvement .
In wild - type zebrafish , meiotic cells expressed brca2 ; and , unexpectedly , transcripts in oocytes localized asymmetrically to the animal pole .
Fas - Fas ligand signaling pathway mediates an interleukin - 12 - induced rejection of a murine prostate tumor system .
RESULTS : The positive c - kit protein expression and c - kit gene mutation rates were 97 . 6 % ( 80 / 82 ) and 41 . 5 % ( 34 / 82 ) .
In addition , syndecans bind to obesity - related factors and regulate their signaling , in turn modulating food consumption and weight balance .
The median number of therapies applied , including initial surgery , was 5 ( range 3 - 7 therapies ) .
In the present study , we developed the first specific inhibitors of the pyruvate kinase isoenzyme type M2 and present evidence that these inhibitors moderately decelerate tumor cell proliferation .
Angiogenesis - dependent diseases result when new blood vessels either grow excessively or insufficiently .
Relationship between of blood flow , glucose metabolism , protein synthesis , glucose and ATP content in experimentally - induced glioma ( RG1 2 . 2 ) of rat brain .
The mechanism of Notch signaling remains poorly understood .
Diallyl trisulfide ( DATS ) inhibits mouse colon tumor in mouse CT - 26 cells allograft model in vivo .
Q - RT - PCR was a useful method to detect the mRNA levels of nm23 gene in buccal carcinoma .
Therapeutic angiogenesis is the biological agents or bioactive material to stimulate the growth of new blood vessels .
Angiotensin II ( ANG II ) , a key regulator of blood pressure and body fluid homeostasis , exerts mitogenic effects on endothelial cells .
The results in steady state reveal that both substrates glucose and glutamine are continuously wasted by tumour cells , excreting two moles of lactate per mol of glucose and one mol of glutamate and ammonia per mol of glutamine consumed into the medium .
Indeed , Ang1 promotes the activation of mDia through RhoA , resulting in the association of mDia with Src .
However , there were no significant differences in serum IL - 8 concentrations between NHL patients and controls ( 159 . 2 + / - 40 . 4 vs . 99 . 6 + / - 107 . 1 pg / mL ; P = 0 . 099 ) .
We also observe that SHP - 2 knockdown impairs the dopamine - regulated inhibition of VEGF - induced phosphorylation of VEGFR - 2 and , subsequently , Src phosphorylation and migration .
TEL is a member of the ETS family of transcription factors that interacts with the mSin3 and SMRT corepressors to regulate transcription .
In human endothelial cells , cediranib inhibited VEGF - E - induced phosphorylation of VEGFR - 2 and VEGF - C156S - induced phosphorylation of VEGFR - 3 at concentrations of less than / = 1nmol / L and inhibited activation of downstream signaling molecules .
A reduction and not an increase in tumor glucose availability could be a more appropriate strategy for the induction of energy failure in tumors .
Heat shock proteins ( HSPs ) have been defined as proteins induced by heat shock and other environmental and pathophysiologic stress .
Ovarian cancer is a silent killer , and shows early extensive tumor invasion and peritoneal metastasis .
Metastasis - associated 5T4 antigen disrupts cell - cell contacts and induces cellular motility in epithelial cells .
[ Effects of Epstein - Barr virus latent membrane protein 1 ( EBV - LMP1 ) on related factors of metastasis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell line CNE1 ] .
One option is to reduce the G - CSF dosage as much as possible , and observe the tempo of progression , if any , to more overt signs of malignancy .
The metastasis group showed significantly higher alpha - SMA expression compared with the no metastasis group ( p < 0 . 001 ) .
Using tamoxifen and doxorubicin - sensitive and - resistant breast cancer cell lines as models , we found that doxorubicin - but not tamoxifen - resistance is associated with nuclear accumulation of FOXO3a , consistent with the finding that sustained nuclear FOXO3a is associated with poor prognosis .
AKT2 is a downstream target of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 ( Grm1 ) .
DMI inhibited cell proliferation in a time - dependent manner .
In DNA from the T - cells not expressing DR alpha mRNA , all of the potential HpaII sites within the BglII fragment appeared to be methylated .
METHODS : Bovine aortic endothelial cells ( ECs ) were cultured .
Glucose catabolism in cancer cells : identification and characterization of a marked activation response of the type II hexokinase gene to hypoxic conditions .
Conditional deletion of Smad1 and Smad5 in somatic cells of male and female gonads leads to metastatic tumor development in mice .
Rofecoxib as adjunctive therapy for haemophilic arthropathy .
Supernatant from cultures of Ve - and OMP - stimulated HGF strongly induced VPE .
Here , we have tested endocytic Rab GTPases for regulation of VEGFR2 trafficking and signaling linked to endothelial cell migration .
Interestingly , both constitutively active and kinase - inactive Hck interact with and are targeted for degradation by Cbl .
CONCLUSION : TEMF therapy provided a safe means for retarding tumor vascularization , growth and metastasis .
The transformed cells were cloned after in vivo tumorigenic assay , and 4 clones were analyzed for osteonectin expression by Northern blots .
However , the exact mechanisms of ARF action yet remain unclear and require further studies by different specialists at both the molecular genetic and other levels of investigation .
We conclude that anti - angiogenic action of thalidomide is due to direct inhibitory action on VEGF secretion and capillary microvessel formation as well as immunomodulatory influence on EA . hy 926 cells migration and adhesion .
In 11 there was complete wound healing , while in 1 there was partial response , in 1 minimal response , and in 1 a transient response .
Loss of tumor suppressor proteins , which function as brakes on cell growth , migration , or cell survival , was recognized early on as an important mechanism for initiation and progression of melanoma .
N - methyl - N - nitrosourea - induced transformation of rat urothelial cells in vitro is not mediated by activation of ras oncogenes .
RESULTS : IL - 12 - expressing RM - 9 prostate carcinoma cells transplanted into C57BL / J6 mice grew more slowly than control RM - 9 cells and vector control RM - 9 - Luc cells .
After 2 h incubation at 37 degrees C the drop in the ATP level was much lower .
Gene transfer of naked DNA encoding for three isoforms of vascular endothelial growth factor stimulates collateral development in vivo .
Perlecan is a ubiquitous pericellular proteoglycan ideally placed to mediate cell signaling events controlling migration , proliferation , and differentiation .
Transient circulating levels of angioactive molecules and serial high - resolution imaging studies of focal angiogenesis might help .
The tumor - suppressive action of rAAV2 / 5 - VAS in subcutaneous human lung tumor A549 xenograft correlated with a reduced number of capillary vessels in tumors .
Therefore , this enhancing effect does not result from an idiosyncrasy of the EBV genome but rather reflects a general property of these miRNAs .
The frequent expression of cytolytic effector markers in the CD2 + surface CD3 - CD56 + putative NK - cell lymphomas lends further support to their probable NK cell origin .
Epidermal growth factor ( EGF ) binds with high affinity and specificity to a single site on the external domain of its transmembrane receptor to activate the tyrosine protein kinase activity of its cytoplasmic portion .
Several Notch genes have clearly been shown to be proto - oncogenes in mammalian cells .
Levels of uPA , urokinase - plasminogen activator receptor ( uPAR ) and plasminogen activator inhibitor - 1 ( PAI - 1 ) were measured semiquantitatively in paraffin sections of tumours from 147 patients with NSCLC .
These assays yielded mainly the viral large T - antigen and , in particular , the associated cellular p53 as endogenous substrates .
Patients with liver and / or bone metastases had significantly higher median concentrations of S - 100beta , IL - 6 and IL - 10 than those with only skin , nodal and / or lung involvement .
The deregulated Bcr / Abl tyrosine kinase is responsible for the development of Philadelphia ( Ph ) - positive leukemia in humans .
Glucocorticoid receptor ( GR ) activation has recently been shown to inhibit apoptosis in breast epithelial cells .
A reduction in alpha - catenin expression and p53 overexpression correlated to lymph node metastases , respectively .
The in vivo role of 9E3 / CEF4 may be involved with chemotaxis and metastasis , rather than with direct stimulation of mitogenicity .
RESULTS : VEGF - C expression was higher in lymphatic metastasis group ( PI = 12 . 169 + / - 2 . 778 ) than in no - metastasis group ( PI = 8 . 498 + / - 2 . 674 , P < 0 . 05 ) .
These data suggest that inhibition of B16F10 melanoma metastasis by rk - 2 was caused by inhibition of neovascularization and reduction of matrix metalloproteinase expression .
Betulin , unlike its chemical derivative betulinic acid , did not directly trigger mitochondrial cytochrome c release in isolated mitochondria .
Simultaneously , MMP - 2 expression increases with malignancy .
Regulation of p53 - dependent apoptosis , transcriptional repression , and cell transformation by phosphorylation of the 55 - kilodalton E1B protein of human adenovirus type 5 .
The chromosomal translocation t ( 11 : 14 ) is associated with human lymphoid neoplasia affecting centrocytic B - cells of intermediate differentiation .
Many of these measures appear suitable for use in cancer prevention .
These data support a possible role for tumor cell TGF - beta in the progression of mammary carcinomas by suppressing host immune surveillance .
RESULTS : All the primary breast cancers and the lymph node metastases were positive for Glut - 1 .
Primary human keratinocytes lacking G45 ( DeltaG45 ) showed alterations of basal receptor organization , impaired matrix deposition , and increased migration .
Besides the wealth of data elucidating the functional roles of Pten , recent studies suggest a diagnostic significance of PTEN gene alterations as a molecular marker for poor prognosis in anaplastic astrocytomas and anaplastic oligodendrogliomas .
Focal adhesion kinase ( pp125FAK or FAK ) is a protein tyrosine kinase which is associated with intracellular signalling cascades which are initiated when the integrin family of cell adhesion molecules engage extracellular matrix molecules .
The transfer of apoptosis genes to tumors constitutes one of the most promising strategies for cancer gene therapy .
RESULTS : In comparison with controls , intratumoral injection of Ad - mEndostatin significantly inhibited the tumor growth and metastasis , and prolonged the survival rate of mice ( P less than 0 . 05 ) .
Furthermore , inhibition of PARP activity , but not of caspase activity , completely prevented magnolol - induced necrosis , suggesting the notion that it might be caused by depletion of intracellular ATP levels due to PARP activation .
Some mice in each group were euthanized 24 hours after the end of IR .
Protruding and expansive ulcerating carcinomas developed at 36 weeks and had a microvascular pattern similar to that of human adenocarcinoma .
Apart from the vascular grade , none of the other factors examined was statistically related to lymph node metastasis ( P less than 0 . 0001 ) .
14 - 3 - 3zeta Overexpression and abnormal beta - catenin expression are associated with poor differentiation and progression in stage I non - small cell lung cancer .
1B3 binds to PDGFRbeta with high affinity ( 9x10 ( - 11 ) M ) and blocks PDGF - BB from binding to the receptor with an IC ( 50 ) of approximately 1 . 2 nM .
Its Hsp90 inhibition results in multiple anti - tumor - specific effects , such as degradation of Hsp90 - client proteins involved in cell growth , survival , and specific transformation , inhibition of cancer cell growth , delay of cell cycle progression , induction of morphological and functional changes , and apoptosis .
Hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell carcinoma ( HLRCC ) is caused by mutations in the Krebs cycle enzyme fumarate hydratase ( FH ) .
WT1 was isolated as a tumor suppressor gene of Wilms tumor .
PURPOSE : We prepared tumor endothelium targeted cRGD - modified heparin derivative ( cRGD - HL ) by coupling heparin - lithocholic acid ( HL ) with cRGDyK , and evaluated inhibition effects of cRGD - HL on angiogenesis and tumor growth .
s - VEGF was also measured before , 4 and 8 weeks after nephrectomy in 11 patients .
Tumorigenic activity of rho genes from Aplysia californica .
However , the role of IL - 17F in intestinal tumorigenesis has not been addressed .
Alpha - melanocyte - stimulating hormone ( alpha - MSH ) has evolved as a mediator of diverse biological activities in an ever - growing number of non - melanocytic cell types .
RESULTS : There was no significant difference in the median PE level between AML / MDS patients and the normal controls .
In an experiment in which vitamin E inhibited carcinogenesis , it was found that tumour angiogenesis and tumour growth - factor alpha ( TGF alpha ) expression were also inhibited .
Targeting tumour pericytes is a promising anti - angiogenic therapy but requires identifying the mechanisms of their recruitment in tumour and addressing whether these mechanisms can be selectively harnessed .
Platelet - derived growth factor ( PDGF ) and its receptors ( PDGFR ) play important roles in tumorigenesis through stimulating tumor growth and promoting angiogenesis via enhancing pericyte recruitment and vessel maturation .
In tissues with a normally high metabolic turnover such as skeletal and cardiac muscle , even mild ischemia causes hypoxia , acidosis , and depressed function ( contractility ) and eventually threatens myocyte viability and organ function .
Here we analyzed LDH5 protein expression in a well characterized large cohort of primary lung cancers in correlation to clinico - pathological data and its possible impact on patient survival .
Thus , angiogenesis is a physiologic event in normal postnatal murine skin , apparently is dictated by the hair follicle , and appears to be required for normal anagen development .
Comparisons of presymposium and postsymposium responses and between the 2 groups of attendees indicated that the pediatric dentistry and endodontic communities agree that formocresol will be replaced as a primary tooth pulpotomy agent , that mineral trioxide is the first choice to take its place , that IPT in primary teeth holds hope as a replacement for pulpotomy , and that IPT is an acceptable pulp therapy technique for cariously involved young permanent teeth .
Whole body glucose use was 55 % lower in patients than in control subjects ( 17 + / - 3 mumol / kg / minute versus 38 + / - 3 mumol / kg / minute , P = 0 . 002 ) , consistent with insulin resistance in cancer .
They are also known to trigger free radical generation .
Multikinase inhibitor sorafenib inhibits proliferation and angiogenesis of tumors by suppressing the Raf / MEK / ERK signaling pathway and VEGF receptor tyrosine kinase .
The expression of MMP - 2 / 9 of AGS cells was inhibited by 2 . 0 microM of GA .
Moreover , TKI - 31 dose - dependently suppressed HUVEC tube formation .
Affymetrix - microarray analysis was performed using T47D cells over - expressing RASSF1C to identify RASSF1C target genes .
Furthermore , suppression of NF - kappaB activation decreased the transcript levels and BMP - 2 - induced phosphorylation of Smad1 / 5 / 8 , critical downstream targets of BMP - 2 signaling in PC cells .
The p53 and VEGF staining statuses were coincident in only 21 % of the tumors , and no significant correlation was found between p53 and VEGF statuses .
In this study , we have explored the activity of GSE on VEGF receptor and angiogenesis .
Mechanisms of pericyte recruitment in tumour angiogenesis : a new role for metalloproteinases .
METHODS : Thirty - two male wistar rats randomly divided into four groups .
In contrast , a selective COX - I inhibitor , SC - 560 , had no effect on serum progesterone concentrations .
Endothelial cell migration is an essential step in vasculogenesis and angiogenesis , in which receptor tyrosine kinases play a pivotal role .
Suppression of PIM - 1 activity had a negligible effect on transformation .
Together , the data establish that acute ethanol exposure significantly impairs angiogenesis and suggest that this effect is mediated by changes in endothelial cell responsiveness to both VEGF and hypoxia .
This pattern of expression is consistent with a mechanistic involvement of 5T4 molecules in the spread of cancer cells .
Less than 15 % of the glucose uptake was affected by the 1 , 2 , 3 - benzenetricarboxylate inhibition of the malate - citrate shuttle .
CCL16 activates an angiogenic program in vascular endothelial cells .
One such receptor , VEGFR - 2 / KDR , plays a key role in VEGF - induced angiogenesis .
The apparent first - order rate constant for GSH decay increased progressively for L1210 cells expressing a range of GPX activities from approximately 5 % to 100 % , demonstrating that peroxide detoxification is strictly dependent on enzyme content .
CONCLUSIONS : Higher expression of the glucose transporter Glut - 1 by breast cancer cells compared with the healthy breast tissue is common .
Adenovirus 5 E1A enhances histone deacetylase inhibitors - induced apoptosis through Egr - 1 - mediated Bim upregulation .
Uncultured peripheral blood T - cells from human T - cell leukemia - lymphoma virus - infected individuals expressed DR antigens at a low level , and the DR alpha locus was partially unmethylated .
Immunohistochemical staining of the tumors demonstrated a decreased number of blood vessels in the treatment group versus the controls .
Depletion of ARD1 by shRNA suppressed PCa cell proliferation , anchorage - independent growth , and xenograft tumor formation in SCID mice , suggesting that AR - dependent ARD1 expression is biologically germane .
Therefore , the phenotypic traits of the miR - BHRF1 - 2 null mutant could result partly from reduced miR - BHRF1 - 1 and miR - BHRF1 - 3 expression levels .
OBJECTIVE : Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 ( VEGFR2 ) is a receptor tyrosine kinase that regulates vascular physiology .
In human gliomas and other cancer cell lines , the accumulation of HIF - 1alpha protein under aerobic conditions requires the metabolism of glucose to pyruvate that prevents the aerobic degradation of HIF - 1alpha protein , activates HIF - 1 DNA binding activity , and enhances the expression of several HIF - 1 - activated genes including erythropoietin , vascular endothelial growth factor , glucose transporter 3 , and aldolase A .
Both PLD1 - and PLD2 - mediated cell cycle distributions in stable cell lines revealed an increased fraction of cells in the S phase compared with control cells .
Interleukin - 8 ( IL - 8 ) is known to be a pro - inflammatory and pro - angiogenic cytokine , and IL - 8 has been reported to be associated with tumor progression , prognosis and survival in several types of cancers .
The neural stem cell fate determinant TLX promotes tumorigenesis and genesis of cells resembling glioma stem cells .
No statistically significant relationships were found between age at onset of MDS or AML and patient gender , G - CSF dose , or duration of G - CSF therapy .
We hypothesized that an additional direct consequence of FH deficiency is the establishment of a biosynthetic milieu .
There was a significant correlation between loss of CDC4 / FBXW7 expression and upregulation of c - myc .
In spheroids , the glucose consumption ( 2 . 1 p mole / cell / h ) and lactate production ( 3 . 67 p mole / cell / h ) was nearly 2 - 3 fold higher than in monolayer cells ( 0 . 83 and 1 . 43 p mole / cell / h respectively ) .
To elucidate the role of free radicals and leukocytes in MTX - induced oxidative organ damage and the putative protective effect of L - carnitine ( L - Car ) , Wistar albino rats were administered a single dose of MTX ( 20 mg / kg ) followed by either saline or L - Car ( 500 mg / kg ) for 5 days .
Tumor angiogenesis modulates leukocyte - vessel wall interactions in vivo by reducing endothelial adhesion molecule expression .
In the manual count analysis , there was no significant relation between MDM2 overexpression and outcome .
WIT003 , as well as pure 20 - HETE , stimulated EC proliferation by approximately 40 % .
In contrast , ectopic TSP - 1 expression in SiHa cells has little effect on the invasive ability of the NIH3T3 cells .
We have reported important benefits and survival with an immunotherapy schedule in patients with endocrine - dependent breast cancer and distant metastases .
CONCLUSIONS : We have found that patients with RDEB have elevated levels of bFGF , which may contribute to increased fibroblast collagenase and the development of squamous cell carcinoma .
Archival tissues from 40 patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma who received primary surgical resection were examined for HSP27 by immunohistochemistry and correlated with clinical stage , lymph node metastasis , histological grade and survival period .
Our aim is to verify the alterations in the HRK gene in primary central nervous system lymphomas ( PCNSLs ) .
A tumor ' s ability to successfully metastasize may be dependent on mediators generated in the tumor - host interaction , and may not be just an independent characteristic of the tumor itself .
On the mechanism of glycolysis stimulation by neutral detergents in 3T3 and Ehrlich ascites tumor cells .
Weaning IL - 2 ( null ) x beta ( 2 ) m ( null ) mice were randomized to receive 0 ( deficient ; n = 40 ) , 2 ( basal requirement ; control ; n = 46 ) , or 8 ( supplemented ; n = 36 ) mg folate / kg diet for 32 weeks .
Furthermore , LDH5 correlates positively with the prognostic marker TKTL1 .
Because proteolytic degradation of the extracellular matrix is a critical component of endothelial invasion in angiogenesis , it is logical to assume that PSMA participates in matrix degradation .
Alternative hypotheses , wherein the glucose is used for generation of reducing equivalents ( NADPH ) or anabolic precursors ( ribose ) are also discussed .
Dietary conjugated linoleic acid ( CLA ) has been shown previously to inhibit rat mammary carcinogenesis .
The enhancing factors are proteins related to the family of the transforming growth factors ( TGFs ) by their molecular weight ( about 20 kd ) , their heat and acid resistance , and their sensitivity to dithiothreitol .
The cells invasion was demonstrated by transwell assay .
To begin to explain the morphology of Ras - plus TEL - expressing cells , we demonstrated that the endogenous matrix metalloproteinase stromelysin - 1 was repressed by TEL .
METHODS : The expression of Merlin protein in 45 cases of NSCLC and adjacent tissue of NSCLC and normal lung tissue was checked by immunohistochemistry .
The interaction of virally derived and endogenous cellular proteins converges in deregulation of cell cycle progression and appears to be critical for the development of cervical cancers .
The development of the corpus luteum ( CL ) , which involves angiogenesis , is essential for the establishment of early pregnancy .
Melanoma cells and human fibroblasts adhered to immobilized DC - 9 in a Mn ( 2 + ) - dependent fashion suggesting an integrin - mediated process .
These sinusoids had a great deal of surface area for potential contact with the fetal component .
Collectively , these data suggest that the DSCR1s promoter directs vascular bed - specific expression in activated endothelium and that DSCR - 1s serves to dampen the host response to infection .
Thus , pVHL appears to participate in the elimination of misprocessed proteins , such as those arising in the cell due to the unavailability of glucose or to other stresses .
Chemokine receptor CXCR4 expression , function , and clinical implications in gastric cancer .
Expression of CD154 on renal cell carcinomas and effect on cell proliferation , motility and platelet - activating factor synthesis .
VEGF is a potent activator of angiogenesis as it promotes endothelial cell proliferation and new blood vessel formation .
The vascular insulin - like growth factor ( IGF ) - 1 system includes the IGFs , the IGF - 1 receptor ( IGF - 1R ) , and multiple binding proteins .
Glucose deprivation - mediated sensitization to apoptosis was prevented in MCF - 7 cells overexpressing BCL - 2 .
METHODS : Six patients with lymphoma twice underwent [ 18F ] FDG - PET imaging : once after fasting overnight and once during euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp .
Thus , 20 - HETE may be involved in the regulation of EC functions , such as angiogenesis .
However , the mechanism by which E7 contributes to cellular transformation is unknown .
These findings confirm that cellular immunity is significantly stimulated by IL - 2 only during clinical benefit .
Lewis lung carcinomas in mice by up to 65 % .
When the macro - molecular synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide ( CHX ) or actinomycin D ( Act D ) was present for 26 hours in the absence of GM - CSF and FBS , apoptosis was inhibited .
They are important components of the growth regulatory pathways in normal cells .
The 13C enrichment of cell metabolites was examined after a 4 - h incubation in media containing 5 . 5 mM glucose and 11 mM lactate , each metabolite being alternatively labelled with either [ 1 - 13C ] D - glucose or [ 3 - 13C ] L - lactate .
With a median follow - up of 8 . 4 months , the overall best response rate is 37 % ( 2 complete clinical response / complete clinical response unconfirmed and 9 partial response ) , with 22 % achieving stable disease .
To investigate the dose - dependent effects of APC protein in suppressing intestinal tumorigenesis , we constructed mutant mice carrying hypomorphic Apc alleles Apc ( neoR ) and Apc ( neoF ) whose expression levels were reduced to 20 % and 10 % of the wild type , respectively .
Neoplastic transformation by Notch requires nuclear localization .
These data complement work that shows that HPV16 E7 also interacts with p600 , and that this interaction correlates with the ability of HPV16 E7 to transform cells .
In this review we will discuss the mechanism of action , as well as the preclinical and clinical results , of one of the most promising antitubulin agents : the combretastatin A4 - phosphate derivative , AVE8062A .
The data presented here demonstrate that transcriptional activation of cyclin D1 can oncogenically transform B - cells in concert with a myc gene .
In 1997 , the PTEN gene ( phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 ) was identified as a tumor suppressor gene on the long arm of chromosome 10 .
CONCLUSIONS : Low - dose cyclophosphamide and high - dose celecoxib is well tolerated and active in pretreated aggressive non - Hodgkin ' s lymphoma .
Most anti - angiogenic therapies for malignant gliomas are in Phase I / II trials and only modest efficacies are reported for monotherapies .
p63 - positive carcinomas were poorly differentiated , hormone receptor - negative neoplasms with a high proliferation rate .
We show that restoration of FOXO3a in FOXO3a - deficient LAC cells increases sensitivity to apoptosis caused by a DNA - damaging intermediate of NNK .
Pharmacologic agents have been identified that target these pathways , yet for some agents ( notably thalidomide ) , an understanding of the specific mechanisms of antitumor action has proved elusive .
As such , sustained nuclear FOXO3a expression in breast cancer may culminate in cancer progression and the development of an aggressive phenotype similar to that observed in cytotoxic chemotherapy resistant breast cancer cell models .
Following cotransfection of p53 - null EU - 4 cells with survivin promoter - luciferase constructs and either wt - p53 or different mut - p53 expression vectors , wt - p53 inhibited survivin promoter activity ; p53 - mediated inhibition could be abrogated by overexpression of murine double minute2 ( MDM2 ) protein .
The inhibition of fibrinolysis or proteases decreased the primary tumor growth and pulmonary metastasis , whereas the activation of fibrinolysis or proteases increased the number of metastatic foci in the lung .
The association of fibrinogen levels with clinical / pathological findings and clinical outcome was evaluated .
Cells cannot survive extended severe ischemia but may be able to adapt to a moderate condition where diffusion to and from bordering nonischemic regions sustains vital functions .
A significant amount of type I HK RNA was also found expressed in cancer cell lines .
IL - 17 plays an important role in gut homeostasis .
Molecular analyses of tumors in beclin 1 heterozygous mice show that the remaining wild - type allele is neither mutated nor silenced .
SMI496 , but not a control compound , interfered with angiogenesis in vivo by reversibly inhibiting sprouting from the axial vessels .
A lesion was considered subfoveal if it extended underneath the geometric center of the FAZ .
Cooperative transformation by c - MYC and OSM required PI3K and AKT signaling , showing the importance of multiple signaling pathways downstream of the OSM receptor in defining the cellular response to cytokines .
CONCLUSION : The low expression or absence of stromal SPARC was an independent prognostic factor for poor prognosis of colon cancer .
The aim of this study was to investigate the expression profile of AQPs in human breast cancer and its significance .
Induction of TSP - 1 mRNA by TGF - beta was attenuated by c - Ski in vitro , and expression of TSP - 1 mRNA was decreased in tumors expressing c - Ski in vivo .
Significantly , phenotypic reversion of malignant cells via reexpression of HoxD10 , which is lost in malignant progression , significantly attenuated VEGF expression in a hypoxia - inducible factor 1alpha - independent fashion and reduced EC migration .
METHODS : Ninety diabetic patients with chronic total occlusion in at least one major epicardial coronary artery were enrolled in the study .
A remarkable delay of tumor growth and prolonged life span were also observed .
Knowledge of radiopathological correlations in breast diseases helps the radiologists to analyze and characterize breast lesions .
Medical therapy to improve symptoms , stabilise the underlying vascular disease and improve lower limb outcomes is an important and effective adjunct to lifestyle modification and surgical or endovascular interventions in patients with IC .
Postoperative progression of pulmonary metastasis in osteosarcoma .
Median overall and progression - free survivals are 14 . 4 and 4 . 7 months , respectively .
High osteonectin expression was correlated with high lung colonization .
The inhibition of cultured myoblast differentiation by the simian virus 40 large T antigen occurs after myogenin expression and Rb up - regulation and is not exerted by transformation - competent cytoplasmic mutants .
Overexpression of c - Ski inhibited TGF - beta signaling in OCUM - 2MLN cells .
Anti - endosialin antibodies may have value in identifying vasculature in malignant tissues .
METHODS : Standard therapy with primary resection followed by adjuvant chemotherapy and radiation had failed in all patients .
Thus , our results from differential proteome analysis presented here report for the first time a role for SET in Galpha ( 12 ) - mediated signaling pathways and a role for Galpha ( 12 ) in the regulation of the leukemia - associated SET - protein expression .
As coronary artery disease is the major cause of death in the developed societies and also an emerging health problem in developing countries like Bangladesh therapeutic angiogenesis may provide hope as a new treatment modality for ischemic heart disease with or in place of current therapies .
Effects of 4 - alkylmorpholine N - oxides on ATP - producing processes in Ehrlich ascites and L1210 leukaemia cells .
The tyrosine kinase inhibitor cediranib blocks ligand - induced vascular endothelial growth factor receptor - 3 activity and lymphangiogenesis .
Recent studies have shown that 14 - 3 - 3zeta interacted with other key cellular proteins involved in the tumor development and progression .
The steady - state extraction ratio of enalapril , a substrate that enters the liver rapidly via Oatp1a1 and primarily undergoes metabolism by the carboxylesterases , was unaffected by liver metastasis at week 4 regardless of its delivery via the portal vein or hepatic artery into the perfused liver preparations .
RESULTS : 89 . 5 % ( n = 238 ) of NSCLC revealed LDH5 expression whereas LDH5 expression was not detected in non neoplastic lung tissues ( n = 34 ) ( p < 0 . 0001 ) .
This suggests that the activity of topo I inhibitors will not differ across various tumor stages , pathology , and patient gender .
CONCLUSION : Osteopontin siRNA can inhibit U251 cells invasion via the down - regulation of uPA , MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 levels , and promote apoptosis through induction of Bax expression and inhibition of Bcl 2 level .
In this study we separated weakly acidic phenolic components from other neutral , acidic and basic components of tobacco smoke condensate ( TSC ) and observed that phenolic fraction of TSC significantly increased the number of colonies of promotion - sensitive JB6 Cl41 cells that showed anchorage - independent growth on soft agar in response to BPDE ( an ultimate carcinogen produced by metabolic activation of the PAH benzo [ a ] pyrene ) .
At present , the percentage of such a modification is low , unless referred to selected series of tumours .
Positron emission tomography ( PET ) imaging has become a useful tool for assessing early biologic response to cancer therapy and may be particularly useful in the development of new cancer therapeutics .
The purpose of the present study was to measure the MVD and VEGF expression in a cohort of patients with betel - associated OSCC and to evaluate for possible clinicopathologic correlations .
Assays of electrophoretic mobility , DNA - binding specificity , and antigenicity indicated that Stat3 or a closely related STAT family member was constitutively activated by the Src oncoprotein .
This study investigates HIF - 1alpha , c - Myc , pAkt , and aerobic glycolysis in low - passage breast cancer cells under the assumption that these represent the in vivo condition better than established lines .
The increased migration and invasion resulted from up - regulation of expression and activities of MMP - 2 and MMP - 9 .
The Kaposi ' s sarcoma - associated herpesvirus G protein - coupled receptor as a therapeutic target for the treatment of Kaposi ' s sarcoma .
RESULTS : Thirty - two of 35 patients ( median age , 62 years ) are evaluable for response .
Coexpression of the human Met receptor and its ligand , hepatocyte growth factor / scatter factor ( HGF / SF ) , in NIH 3T3 fibroblasts causes the cells to become tumorigenic in nude mice .
Instead of cancer initiation , it is therefore likely that Tsg101 plays a more predominant role in the progression of a subset of spontaneously arising breast cancers .
In contrast , knockdown of Pbx1 did not impair bone marrow transformation by E2A / HLF or AML1 / ETO , suggesting that Pbx1 is specifically required for the maintenance of bone marrow transformation mediated by Evi - 1 .
TSP - 2 deficiency dramatically enhanced susceptibility to skin carcinogenesis and resulted in accelerated and increased tumor formation .
The data show that different protein expression patterns exist between primary squamous cell lung carcinomas with and without lymph node involvement and within carcinomas with lymph node involvement .
In the present study , we performed a series of molecular imaging experiments using a HIF - 1 - dependent reporter gene , 5HREp - ODD - luc , and found an essential role of the Akt / mTOR pathway .
PLAG1 overexpression in salivary glands has previously been shown to result in salivary gland tumors in 100 % of mice within 5 weeks after birth .
Selective inhibition of PI3K / Akt suppressed the NF - kappaB - induced BMP - 2 promoter activity .
In the current study , the impact of VEGF expression on the response of tumors to the VEGFR2 associated tyrosine kinase inhibitor vandetanib was evaluated .
To test the hypothesis that 20 - HETE increases endothelial cell ( EC ) proliferation via vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , we studied the effects of WIT003 [ 20 - hydroxyeicosa - 5 ( Z ) , 14 ( Z ) - dienoic acid ] , a 20 - HETE analog on human macrovascular or microvascular EC .
KISS1 transcript expression remained an independent prognosticator in multivariate analyses ( P = 0 . 017 ) .
Furthermore , it was showed that GSH depletion induced by MOG rendered some leukemia cell lines more sensitive to arsenic trioxide ( As2O3 ) , doxorubicin or cisplatin .
CONCLUSIONS / SIGNIFICANCE : These results suggested that intrinsic apoptotic pathway may involve in anti - tumor growth effects of HTPB in lung cancer cells .
The oxidative burst of neutrophils stimulated by Annexin V was reduced in the saline - treated MTX group , while L - Car abolished this inhibition .
Four selected cell hybrids expressed the human transforming gene product p21 at levels of 10 to 30 % compared to 100 % in the transformed parental cells .
HIF - 1alpha stabilization and the expression of VEGF isoform 165 and 121 in hypoxia were also reduced by the infection of lentiviral shRNA of TB4 in B16F10 cells .
BMECs transfected with hTERT alone were functionally and phenotypically normal .
Many of the circulatory and transport properties of the sheep placenta are similar to those of the human placenta and as such , the pregnant sheep offers an excellent model in which to study the development of IUGR .
Here we targeted M2 - PK by synthetic peptide aptamers , which specifically bind to M2 - PK and shift the isoenzyme into its low affinity dimeric conformation .
The number of lymph node metastases was significantly higher in HEC1A / VEGF - C cells than in HEC1A cells ( 3 . 2 vs 1 . 1 nodes / animal , respectively ) .
MMP - 2 was increased with malignancy , but no expression of MMP - 9 was seen .
A preponderance of viable fat , with evidence of neovascularization , was found in experimental flaps , compared with the necrotic fat that characterized the controls .
Higher platelet concentrations may expose beneficial effects of PRP .
VEGF - A ( 165 ) mainly contributes to increased serum VEGF levels and may serve as a diagnostic tool in advanced - stage neuroblastoma .
The role of hypoxia in 2 - butoxyethanol - induced hemangiosarcoma .
Histologic parameters ( primary and secondary bone trabecula , neovascularization , and bone marrow and connective tissue formation ) were compared between 4 - and 16 - week groups . More rapid decrease in defect size was observed in groups 3 and 4 than in groups 1 and 2 , both in the 4th and 16th weeks .
p21 delays tumor onset by preservation of chromosomal stability .
RESULTS : Using the D2 - 40 antibody for immunostaining , our results demonstrate a significant higher detection ( P < 0 . 001 ) of LVI as compared with routine H . E . - staining in early breast cancer .
MATERIALS AND METHODS : Human neuroblastoma cells and human Chang hepatocytes are grown in a noncontact , coculture system .
It was shown that large T - antigen showed associated kinase activity , although none of our results could unambiguously demonstrate an intrinsic kinase activity of this protein .
The TGF - beta type II receptor in chronic myeloid leukemia : analysis of microsatellite regions and gene expression .
Pretreatment of cells with caffeine significantly reduces adenosine - induced VEGF promoter activity and VEGF and IL - 8 expression .
We examined the paired tumour and normal - tissue specimens of 86 CRC patients for the occurrence of aberrations in the mutation cluster region ( MCR ) of the APC gene and exon 3 of the beta - catenin gene by polymerase chain reaction - single - strand conformation polymorphism ( PCR - SSCP ) and / or PCR - direct sequencing .
METHODS : Tissues samples were taken from 60 patients with esophageal SCC after surgery .
Furthermore , it was shown that thiol - containing antioxidants completely blocked MOG - induced mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss and subsequent cell apoptosis , while the inhibition of apoptosis by benzyloxy - carbonyl - Val - Ala - Asp - fluoromethylketone only partially attenuated mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss , indicating that MOG - induced redox imbalance is an early event upstream to mitochondrial DeltaPsim loss and caspase - 3 activation .
To explore the potential of chemotherapy directed at the tyrosine kinase of p185neu , we have found that emodin ( 3 - methyl - 1 , 6 , 8 - trihydroxyanthraquinone ) , a tyrosine kinase inhibitor , suppresses autophosphorylation and transphosphorylation activities of HER - 2 / neu tyrosine kinase , resulting in tyrosine hypophosphorylation of p185neu in HER - 2 / neu - overexpressing breast cancer cells .
These drugs , however , exhibit severe side effects and are expensive .
Consistent with the in vitro data , GSE treatment of tumor - bearing mice led to concomitant reduction of blood vessel density and phosphorylation of mitogen - activated protein kinase .
OBJECTIVE : Although DCC has been considered as a candidate tumor suppressor , the roles it plays in the uterine endometrium and in the carcinogenic process remains unclear .
Experiments using the tsA 58 allele of the SV 40 - A gene have demonstrated that the SV 40 large T - antigen is strictly required both for immortalization and induction anchorage independence of cells .
Factors including thrombin and fibrin , which are downstream of the coagulation cascade activated by TF , also contribute to atherosclerosis .
[ Role of the tumor suppressor ARF in oncogenesis ]
In contrast , intact beta2GPI does not bind to AS4 . 5 or inhibit its antiangiogenic activity .
METHODS : An mIL - 12 expression vector driven by cytomegalovirus promoter was used to express murine IL - 12 cDNA in the RM - 9 murine prostate carcinoma cell line .
Expression of CDK4 or CDK2 in mouse oral cavity is retained in adult pituitary with distinct effects on tumorigenesis .
Our results support the use of FDG PET in clinical trials with RAF265 to assess early tumor response .
CONCLUSION : Our results strongly support a role for PI3K / Akt / mTOR pathway in PET , which ties in with the fact that mTOR inhibitors have reached phase III trials in neuroendocrine tumors .
Both agents inhibited angiogenesis and induced apoptosis when compared to tumors from control animals .
Lymph nodes metastasis of tumor could be a crucial early step in the metastatic process .
Sci .
Overexpression of Bax inhibitor - 1 ( BI - 1 ) induces cell transformation in NIH3T3 cells .
These observations provide evidence that enhanced proliferation in N - ras - transformed cells compromises teratocarcinoma cell differentiation by a mechanism that transiently suppresses homeobox gene induction and implies a central role for homeobox genes in RA - induced cell differentiation .
Apoptotic signaling by p75 was ligand - independent and only partly caspase - dependent .
In this review article , many functions of homeobox genes both at the early stem cell level as well as at the later stages of hematopoietic differentiation , and the leukemogenic effect of altered homeobox genes are discussed .
In contrast , NIH 3T3 cells are non - tumorigenic but are ras - responsive and become metastatic when transfected with ras .
Converging studies from many investigators indicate that RUNX1 has a critical role in the correct maintenance of essential cellular functions during embryonic development and after birth .
Further analysis revealed that M - CSF induced VEGF through the MAPK / ERK signaling pathway via the transcription factor , Sp1 .
All four metastatic hybrids expressed 60 - 72 kDa gelatinase activity , while three of them also had 92 kDa activity and one had only minimal 92 kDa activity .
Irreversible PHT cases were also more likely to show compensatory upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor and new small vessel formation at the sites of native vessel stenosis or occlusion ( p less than 0 . 001 ) .
[ Effect of osteopontin silencing by lentivirus - mediated delivery of siRNA on glioma cell invasion and apoptosis ] .
Viability , measured by the activity of mitochondrial dehydrogenases , was reduced significantly in the cells treated with Sim at 50 and 100 microM for 24 hours ( p < 0 . 005 ) .
Four weeks later , islet gene analysis and pancreas immunochemistry were performed .
All treatments resulted in significant changes in vascular volume with time , while only DMBA treatments alone resulted in significant changes in vascular permeability with time .
Newly forming vessels have thin caliber , a markedly reduced vessel lumen , markedly reduced pericyte recruitment , and deficient vascular perfusion .
The genes regulated by Nrf2 are very important for cellular protection of the genome from xenobiotic and oxidative stresses and , consequently , for preventing carcinogenesis .
Most primary human melanomas exhibit loss of expression of the CDKN2A locus in addition to activation of the canonical mitogen - activated protein kinase signaling pathway .
Vasodilator - stimulated phosphoprotein is involved in stress - fiber and membrane ruffle formation in endothelial cells .
Hypoxic induction of HIF - 1alpha and VEGF expression in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma lines is mediated by stress activated protein kinases .
However , when the same cells were exposed to step - wise increases of TGF - beta concentration in their culture medium , the development of TGF - beta resistance was accelerated .
Our data demonstrate , for the first time , that IGF1 - R / Akt / Bcl - x ( L ) pathway may contribute to a more aggressive malignant phenotype , in a subset of colorectal cancers .
The particular characteristics of these alterations , 80 % of which are missense mutations leading to functionally heterogeneous proteins , make p53 a unique gene in the class of tumor suppressor genes .
Bovine papillomavirus E7 transformation function correlates with cellular p600 protein binding .
In this study , we show that Tsg101 is highly expressed in a subset of invasive human breast cancers .
VEGFR1 - positive haematopoietic bone marrow progenitors initiate the pre - metastatic niche .
Therefore we aimed to study the effects of simvastatin ( Sim ) on malignant B cells derived from patients with CLL and mechanisms of action of the drug .
In the present study , we investigated in vivo the regulation of leukocyte - vessel wall interactions by the presence of a tumor .
The metronomic concept might not universally apply to every cytotoxic drug in colorectal cancer and metronomic combination regimens should be used with caution .
Electronmicroscopically , thrombus formation in the primary site prevented tumor invasion and metastasis formation .
Cooccurrence of reduced expression of alpha - catenin and overexpression of p53 is a predictor of lymph node metastasis in early gastric cancer .
LDH5 overexpression in cancer cells induces an upregulated glycolytic metabolism and reduced dependence on the presence of oxygen .
These chemicals differ from the direct - acting mutagens tested previously .
These showed cleavage of caspases 9 , 8 , and 3 .
After 1 drug - free week , the second course was administered with 120 mg / body / day of TS - 1 for 4 weeks .
A kinetics analysis showed that the depolarization of mitochondrial membrane potential and the release of mitochondrial cytochrome c occurred as early as 30 min after treatment with betulin .
Via this binding , nicked beta2GPI attenuates the antiangiogenic functions of AS4 . 5 in the proliferation of arterial / venous endothelial cells , in the extracellular matrix invasion and the tube formation of venous endothelial cells , and in vivo angiogenesis .
The factor is present in medium conditioned by mast cells as well as lysates of mast cells .
Expression profiling in progressive stages of fumarate - hydratase deficiency : the contribution of metabolic changes to tumorigenesis .
Thus , Fas could be involved in bovine lactoferrin - mediated inhibition of tumor development .
Ex vivo , estradiol exposure increased the IL - 8 secretion of normal whole breast tissue in culture .
Although angiostatin administered intravenously is cleared from the circulation in a matter of minutes , angiostatin - mimetics that are more stable have potential for clinical application .
Moreover , SMI496 caused cell retraction and cytoskeletal collapse of endothelial cells as well as delayed endothelial cell wound healing .
The level of apoptosis , as measured by annexin binding to exposed phosphatidylserine moieties , increased significantly in the treated cells at concentrations higher than 50 microM for 24 hours ( p < 0 . 003 ) .
In cultured stable Grm1 - mouse - melanocytic clones , as well as an metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 ( Grm1 ) expressing human melanoma cell line , C8161 , stimulation of Grm1 by its agonist led to the activation of AKT , while preincubation with Grm1 - antagonist abolished Grm1 - agonist - induced AKT activation .
The cells were labeled with luciferase , a bioluminescence imaging reporter gene , to enable optical imaging .
Recruiting a new blood supply is a rate - limiting step in tumor progression .
Diverse cell signaling events modulated by perlecan .
Effect of estrogen and progesterone on macrophage activation during wound healing .
These results suggest the possibility that BV may exert an anti - tumor effect on human lung cancer .
Treatment was discontinued at patient request or if there was no measurable response to therapy .
Brn - 3a , a member of the POU gene family ( so - called because of the similarity with the group of transcription factors Pit , Oct , and Unc ) , was found in neuronal cells engaged in the transcription activity of the p1 and p2 promoters of the most powerful antiapoptotic gene , namely , Bcl - 2 .
Contemporary perspectives on vital pulp therapy : views from the endodontists and pediatric dentists .
Angiogenesis is a critical process in solid tumor growth and metastasis .
BACKGROUND : The fate of patients with multiple endocrine neoplasia of type II A ( MEN II A ) is determined by medullary thyroid carcinoma , which occurs in all cases .
Bevacizumab and irinotecan therapy in glioblastoma multiforme : a series of 13 cases .
Loss of heterozygosity at the E - Cadherin ( uvo ) locus has been reported , but mutations in the E - cadherin gene seem to be rare .
The methylation status was correlated to the clinical manifestations and to PTEN expression , which was analyzed by both Western blot and immunohistochemistry .
As HIF - 2alpha activity has been associated not only with hypoxic but also with hypoglycemic conditions , we have investigated putative effects of hypoxia , glucose depletion , and HIF - 2alpha on the neuroblastoma phenotype .
T - cell lines established from human T - cell leukemia - lymphoma virus associated T - cell neoplasias , in contrast to the T - cell acute lymphocytic leukemia cell lines , expressed both DR antigens and DR alpha mRNA ; the HpaII sites within the BglII fragment of DR alpha DNA of these human T - cell leukemia - lymphoma virus - positive T - cell lines were in all cases at least partially unmethylated .
The various complex interactions of TP give it an essential role in cellular functioning and , hence , it is an ideal target in cancer therapy .
These two transcription factors also play an important role in fibroblasts , in extracellular matrix composition , and in cytokine expression .
Phosphatase and tension homolog deleted on chromosome 10 ( PTEN ) , a tumor suppressor , is frequently deficient in various pathologies due to mutation or epigenetic alterations .
Vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) - induced receptor phosphorylation is the crucial step for initiating downstream signaling pathways that lead to angiogenesis or related pathophysiological outcomes .
Transforming growth factor - beta ( TGF - beta ) , a major factor in the activation of fibroblasts , increased alpha - SMA and desmin expression and the ability of cell migration and invasion in NIH3T3 cells .
The fact that the apoptotic and antiproliferative functions of p53 can be dissociated in certain mutants also suggests another level of complexity in the relationships between p53 inactivation and neoplasia .
Under this condition , the secondary functions of effected cells are likely to be impaired , and a new metabolic equilibrium is established , determined by the level of cross - diffusion and degree of hypoxia .
